Most likely we we see a slowdown in in
payroll growth over the next couple
months. We see this gradual slowdown.
The data is going to weaken. The growth
rate is going to fall. The unemployment
rate is going to rise. If you get a
two-10 rise in the unemployment rate,
the market is going to respond quite
respond quite negatively to that. Labor
demand has cooled significantly, but
we're not seeing mass firing. If we see
a sub 100,000 job and certainly a
negative jobs number that would start to
create the narrative of weak hard data
that would allow the Fed to cut rates.
This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz and An
Marie Hordern
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, they have the votes.
We're in a good place right now. This is
the legislative process. This is exactly
how I think the framers intended uh for
it to work. We are going to deliver the
big beautiful bill, the president's
America first agenda, and we're going to
do right by the American people. Look
forward to moving it forward. House
Republicans heading towards a final vote
on the one big beautiful bill as
investors gear up for a very rare
Thursday jobs report later this morning.
President Trump is doubling down on his
criticism of Fed share J Pal. Is
Operation Get to the Beach slightly
delayed? And that seems to be the story
of the year where every time we think
that maybe we're getting some certainty,
it seems like, oh, just hold on a
second. There's just one more wrinkle.
That said, heading into the second half
of this year, one thing that I've really
noticed in all of the analyst notes and
frankly in the policy as we see solidify
in Washington DC, there is a Monica more
of certainty, a sense of we understand
what the range of extremes is, and we
have a greater sense of exactly what
could get through the House, what could
get through the Senate, and what Hakee
Jeff is holding up for a couple seconds
before it gets through. Yeah, I don't
know. I think the magic minute is more
like, you know, the magic hour. So,
we'll see. Then once you get past taxes,
it's on to trade. In July 9th, one of my
favorite stories of the last 24 hours,
Vietnam, you get a 20% tariff. And Nike
rallies. Nike rallies because 20% is not
46%. And apparently that is good news.
Yeah. Nike, Lululemon, we saw on
holdings because they were worried that
they might get something like a 45% or
46% rate, which was the initial one that
was placed on Vietnam. There is this
feeling that given how much lower costs
are in places like Vietnam, something
like a 20% uh tariff rate could be
absorbed. There also is a feeling that
the punitive aspect of Chinese exports
that go through Vietnam, that's going to
be 40%, but it's not going to
necessarily be a dealbreaker where
suddenly trade between Vietnam and the
US are cut off. So, is this the paradigm
where you just want certainty and then
we can rally even though it means the
highest tariffs going back to the 1930s?
We'd love some clarity on something
right now. Later this morning at 8:30
Eastern time, you get a jobs report. I'm
not sure you'll get any clarity
whatsoever. Whatever this number looks
like, there'll be a massive debate on
Wall Street. Is it a reflection of
draining immigration out of the labor
market or does it speak to a weakening
in jobs? This is what we're expecting.
The median estimate in our survey 106K,
the high is 160, the low is 70. The
president's already saying too late
should resign immediately. And I have to
say when he put that out on social media
yesterday, a lot of people asked the
same thing. Did the president just see
the jobs report? And that's unnerved
some people going into this. Yeah. Which
raises this issue of how they're going
to message it, which you've been asking
about for quite a while. You have to
wonder that he's also been calling him
too late for a while and this was tied
to some of the renovations of the
Federal Reserve. So hard to really parse
through this. That said, what is weak
and we've been talking about this
extensively. A low headline number
doesn't necessarily mean a weak market
for jobs. It might just mean that there
is a low hiring, low firing dynamic.
That's the reason why 4.26%
unemployment rate going up to 4.2 to 8%
will be deeply parsed and if it goes up
to 4.36%
all of a sudden the world will collapse
because you've got a 4.4% unemployment
rate rounded up. Stephanie Ross is going
to join us later from Wolf Research,
right? And I remember a few months ago
she said you could see jobs sub 100K and
you could still see unemployment held
steady and it may be even falls. That's
a dynamic that I don't think we're
prepared for, but it's a lot of things
that are on the minds of economists
right now on Wall Street. Yeah. She also
thinks that the headline number is going
to be something like 130 jobs added, but
then it's going to get revised down to
100,000 jobs added in the uh post
payrolls revisions, which just
highlights the number generator that
we're talking about here and how much
people take a look at this stuff and
say, "Okay, this is an approximation of
now. It will change." Jobs report at
8:30, 8:31. The rush to the beach begins
here in New York City ahead of a long
weekend. Equity futures on the S&P just
about unchanged on the S&P 500. Coming
up this hour, Max Kentner of HSBC with
stocks back at record highs. Andy Le
Perier of Piper Sandler as the House
nears a final vote on the tax bill and
Sarah House of Wells Fargo looking ahead
to the payroll report. We begin this
hour with our top story. President
Trump's tax and spending bill heading
for a final vote in the House.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
from Washington for more. Tyler, we're
getting closer.
Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. We're
definitely getting closer. It took all
day yesterday in an overnight session,
but it appears Republicans have paved
the way to pass President Trump's
cornerstone of his legislative agenda.
Now, to sort of get our bearings on
what's happening right now, we see House
Democratic leader Hakee Jeff. He's
speaking on the floor. He's afforded
something known as the magic minute,
which essentially means he can talk for
however long he wants. He started at
4:54 a.m. Eastern. We're not expecting
him to go on that much longer because
once he stops, that's when we are
expecting that vote on final passage.
And we're actually thinking that that
vote's going to get wrapped up pretty
quickly because it appears that these
hold out Republicans were able to reach
some sort of deal in order to get them
over the finish line. And that's one of
the biggest questions here this morning
because I have to say I was on Capitol
Hill for a long time yesterday and I
spoke to many of these holdouts
including uh the chair of the House
Freedom Caucus, Andy Harris, also Chip
Roy, a Republican from Texas. both of
whom were threatening to bring the
Senate back into session. But at the end
of the day, that's not what happened.
The House is accepting th that Senate's
bill. So that means, did they get some
sort of concessions from the White House
when it comes to executive orders or
legislative commitments down the road?
Or was President Trump's pressure enough
to flip them alone without any sort of
tangible concessions? Because John, flip
they did. Including one member that we
have been watching closely, Thomas
Massie, a Republican from Kentucky. We
weren't expecting him to vote for this.
He voted no on the package back in May
and faced a primary challenge from
President Trump because of it. He voted
in favor of the rule that was a pretty
significant development and we are
expecting that he could vote for final
passage here, although anything could
really happen. Tyler Kendall with the
latest. Tyler's going to be tracking a
story for us throughout this morning.
Tyler, thank you. Can we stand those
pictures just for a beat? Trying to
figure out if she was sleeping or on the
phone. Oh, she was 100% sleeping. You
think she was sleeping? Absolutely. Look
at her eyes. I mean, honestly, I don't
blame any of these people. They've been
up all night. They've been up. They came
from their beach to come back to vote on
this. They don't exactly look pleased.
Check it out. What did you do yesterday?
Like the world's smallest violin for
these guys. Yeah. Here's a view on Wall
Street this morning. Max Kentner of HSBC
writing with widespread pessimism and
markets facing a massive wall of worries
in the coming weeks. There's more than
enough to keep investors cautious. Max
joins us now for more. Max, you've been
constructive bullish for quite a while
now. Do you think this market is going
to look through any potential weakness
at 8:30 Eastern time?
Yeah, I think it depends uh what kind of
weakness we get. I think if we track
sort of like roundabout within 50K uh uh
downwards of price, I think that
actually would be taken probably with a
sigh of relief after the the negative
ADP numbers yesterday. So if we had a
sort of 60 70 80k number, I I do think
that actually is probably a pretty good
Goldilocks kind of outcome where you
know you get yields down but also risk
assets across the board can can rally
perhaps even with a bit of of a weaker
dollar because people would probably
take that as as further evidence of the
labor market getting a bit weaker even
though I'm not fully on board with that
because again when we look at a lot of
the data even yesterday right a lot of
the focus was on that weaker ADP data
but let's face it when we look for
example, at the job cuts number
yesterday, which frankly everyone sort
of ignored. But then, you know, you look
at that, that's been going down to
pretty much the lows from uh late last
year with pretty much almost all the
sectors recording less and fewer job
cuts and still people are squarely only
focused on that negative kind of uh
connotation and that really tells you
also where positioning is. So, what is
remarkable still to us, I keep banging
on about it pretty much every week when
I'm when I'm on with you guys, it's
like, oh yeah, positioning is still low.
People are still bearish and there's
still no sales signal. And it just keeps
continuing. We're still at an all-time
high. We're printing new all-time highs
in stocks. Spreads are grinding tighter
and you're still nowhere near. You're at
a gazillion miles away from us a sell
signal. And that's what keeps this
market in this kind of goldilock state.
Max, yesterday was a really interesting
case study, I think, for the trade
story. A week away, the president comes
out and declares some kind of an
agreement, a trade deal with Vietnam and
companies exposed to Vietnam, the likes
of Nike rally on it. 20% tariffs and
Nike rallies because this market was
still anchored to the risk that maybe
it's going to be the 46 he announced on
April 2nd. Is there a read through there
from yesterday maybe into July 9th?
Uh to me there is because not only in
terms of the amount of tariffs but also
in terms of perhaps any kind of
potential deals until then or maybe even
perhaps after the 9th of July because of
course you know I think the market and
particularly risk assets will take it
increasingly as a positive once you get
another couple of trade deals over the
line and of course you could say well
but the average tariff rate isn't it
going to be higher and obviously much
higher than compared to what we had a
year ago or even 6 months ago. fine. But
what we do have is clarity. We have less
uncertainty. And let's face it, when we
look, for example, at all these sort of
popular economic policy, political
uncertainty indices, trade policy
uncertainty indices, all of those have
been in uncharted territory uh
particularly in April. They've been even
higher dur than during the depths of the
COVID lockdown. And of course any kind
of marginal decline in uncertainty any
kind of marginal increase of clarity in
fact should be helping investment it
should be marginally helping perhaps
consumers helping companies to have a
bit more clarity and to move on from
that in the second half of the year
which raises this question Max what's
being priced in I mean essentially
anytime we get clarity people say oh
that's priced in but the clarity is
different every single day whether it's
the clarity of uh what kind of rate
we're talking about with tariffs or the
clarity of how big the US deficit is
going to be all of these worries that we
had earlier in the year that are now
being shrugged off as priced in. How do
you determine between rational versus
numb?
Um I think it is entirely rational
because when we look for example at what
uh is expected for the Q2 reporting
season about to start next week. Um you
know we started the Q2 expectations
bottomup expectations from consensus
about 3 months ago with around about
10%. We're almost only at three and a
half now. Right. So consensus are saying
earnings sequentially quarter and
quarter will be dropping by one and a
half%. Even tech tech earnings are
expected to be flat quarter and quarter.
So you can already tell what consensus
has been doing you know and what they're
sort of pricing in in terms of the
earnings uh uh development and what
they're really expecting in terms of the
fallout even during a quarter where top
down we're probably seeing a lot of
evidence of frontloading of activity.
bottomup consensus is actually saying
despite that frontloading and despite
that front-loading perhaps helping
activity that still wasn't enough to
actually keep earnings higher. So to me
when we look at the next two months you
know when we get that those earnings
particularly from the mega caps always
remember the mega caps they make most of
their earnings outside of the US they
make above 50% of their their revenues
from outside of the US so the weaker
dollar is a massive tailwind there
there's I think there's a very very
decent chance that we actually do
squeeze and we do squeeze a lot higher
in the next month or two after the
reporting season and particularly the
tailwind from that weaker dollar I think
that is not at all baked into those
earnings expectations and not priced in
yet. Is there anything you could see at
8:30 a.m. Eastern time that could change
your view and make you question your
thesis? Uh, no, not really. I'm I'm I'm
pretty I'm pretty convinced right now to
be honest. So, uh, because the problem
also is on the labor market. It's kind
of cherrypicking right now, right?
Obviously, people have been looking at
the ADP yesterday, but you can look also
at the challenger job cuts and you get a
completely different picture. You can
look at jobless claims, you know,
initial jobless claims. Yeah, they down
a bit. you know, continuing claims have
gone up a lot. But again, even there,
when you look at three states, you look
at Texas, Florida, you look at um
Minnesota. Actually, that's almost 70%
of the increase that we had in
continuing claims since the end of
April. So, very specific factors, not
broadbased, right? We look even at warn
notice, is fine, but if you look at the
warn factor, that is still within the
range since uh uh since co ended in
2021. So, you know, there's a lot of
things that when we look a little bit
under the hood, the labor market
weakness does not look as acute as
people are sort of selling it, I think.
Hey, Max, just to put what you've just
said another way, you're basically
telling Lisa that you don't care what
the number is at 8:30 Eastern time. It's
not relevant to you.
It's not really because I think we've
had such huge levels of uncertainty
right in the last three months that I
just can't I have a really tough time to
compare that to a normal time in January
for example or sometime last year you
know who knows isn't actually isn't the
fact for example isn't the risk much
bigger that you know we had in April and
May we had 140 and 150k uh uh uh job
gains roughly during peak uncertainty
doesn't that also mean doesn't that
introduce the risk that in the next
three months if we get a bit more
clarity if we get slightly less
uncertainty. Doesn't that really
introduce the risk that perhaps we get
one or two months of really strong jobs
data? As much as I buy the story of, you
know, tariff related frontloading of
activity, but isn't there also perhaps
companies sort of holding off on on
hiring, companies holding off of
investment with a bit more clarity, with
a bit more certainty, doesn't that also
introduce the risk that companies then
are actually returning to investment,
returning to hiring? And I think that's
where consensus is is completely
oblivious right now. Everyone is
steadfast on no H2 is going to slump
like crazy and there's no way around it.
I think there has to be a few nuances.
The there will be some reversal of these
the front loing. But on the other hand,
isn't there also from this decline of
uncertainty, a bit more clarity?
Shouldn't there also be a bit of a
tailwind from that? And I think people
are pretty much totally ignoring that at
the moment. Hey Max, thank you sir.
We're not now. Max Kentner of HSBC on
upside risk. There's an additional way
of summarizing what Max just said, and
that's you can go on vacation right now,
apparently, and skip payrolls at 8:30
Eastern time. Sometimes the data just
seems so messy and all of the
uncertainties are just so overwhelming
that you can ignore them all and stick
with your thesis uh based on a whole
host of uh different inputs. It really
raises this question, how do you strip
out the signal from the noise at a time
that is incredibly noisy? The estimate
in our survey, 106,000. The jobs number
drops a little bit later this morning.
With an update on stories elsewhere with
your Bloomberg brief is Danny Burger.
Morning, Danny. Good morning, John.
President Trump's one big beautiful bill
is onto its way to a final vote in the
House. Republicans cleared a procedural
hurdle to advance the tax and spending
bill early this morning. Debate now
underway. You can see Hakeem Jeff there
setting up a vote later this morning
ahead of Trump's self-imposed July 4th
deadline. We're going to bring you the
latest developments throughout the
morning. Elsewhere, President Trump says
that Federal Reserve Chair Jay Powell
should resign immediately. This after
the head of the Federal Housing Finance
Agency called on Congress to investigate
Powell, alleging that his recent
testimony to the Senate about the
central bank's plan renovations to its
headquarters was quote deceptive. And in
the UK, Prime Minister Kier Starmer
backed Rachel Reeves to remain
chancellor into the next election and
for many years after. Yesterday he had
refused to say whether she would remain
in the job until the next election.
Starmer later told the BBC that he works
in lock step with Reeves and she is
doing an excellent job as chancellor.
And that's your brief, John. Danny,
thank you. Appreciate it. He butchered
that yesterday, didn't he? The tear
heard around the world. I mean,
honestly, and it seems like unless
people understand exactly why she was
crying and whether she actually is going
to stay, there still is some skepticism
being baked. When it was the trust
government, they blamed Truss. They
didn't blame Quatt. For some reason,
when it's the Starmmer government, they
blame Reeves and not Starmmer. To an
extent, it also shows how much
Starmmer's uh fate politically is tied
to Rachel Reeves because he cannot just
separate himself from her by saying, "I
don't fully back her." We're going to
have that conversation later on this
hour and talk about the implications for
foreign exchange. Up next on the
program, the mega bill advances. We feel
very good about where we are and we're
moving forward. So we are going to
deliver the big beautiful bill, the
president's America first agenda and
we're going to do right by the American
people. Up next on the program, Andy
Learia of Piper Sandler live from New
York City this morning. Good morning
[Music]
We are heading into the long weekend at
alltime highs on the S&P 500. Futures
this morning totally unchanged. The next
stop for this market 8:30 Eastern time.
The jobs report just around a corner.
Under Savannah this morning, the mega
bill advances.
It's been a good day. We're in a good
place right now. This is the legislative
process. This is exactly how I think the
framers intended uh for it to work. Uh
we we feel very good about where we are
and we're moving forward. So we are
going to deliver the big beautiful bill,
the president's America first agenda and
we're going to do right by the American
people. This is going to be a great
thing for the country. Look forward to
moving it forward. Here's the latest
this morning. House Republicans heading
towards a final vote on the president's
one big beautiful bill after working
overnight to flip the holdouts. Joining
us now is Andy Leeria of Piper Sandler.
Andy, welcome to the program. Sir, it
feels like we're getting closer. Any
reason to believe this doesn't get done
before the holiday?
Well, I think with the vote on the rule
last night, uh the odds that you're
going to have people vote against final
passage are really low. So, I think you
should take uh Speaker Johnson to his
word that he's that he's got the votes.
Andy, what is in this that has become
the most conver controversial point for
Washington DC? What is within the bill
that seems to be the biggest issue right
now in the nation's capital?
Well, I mean, you had the holdouts. I
think we're really focused on two
things. So on the moderate side you had
the the Medicaid cuts and on the
conservative side it was kind of a
combination of the degree to which the
bill um increases the deficit and and
then you had you know uh people like
Chip Roy focused on you know um
provisions of the IRA when certain uh
equipment has to be placed in service in
order to qualify for tax credits you
know and I just think that when you get
uh deeper and deeper into the process
the the leverage of individual members
uh just declines, right? I mean, you
know, you're going to, you know, I think
the leadership and the president are
going to ask, well, you're really going
to take this bill down because you don't
like the place in the service state. I
mean, this is the president's entire um
economic agenda here. Um and you're
going to vote no over that. So, I think
um uh you know, that's what we're seeing
that it's it is tough to to vote no at
this point in the process. and we'll
find out a little later uh if they got
anything overnight in terms of uh
concessions on on future things, but the
bill doesn't change. Um and so as uh as
soon as uh Mr. Jeff is is done, we'll uh
they'll have the vote and it'll it'll
pass. Just to be clear, Andy, that means
anyone who's professing to be a fiscal
hawk right now has just been playing
Kabuki Theater. Correct.
Well, I wouldn't ex I wouldn't exactly
say that. I mean, I think that the um uh
I'm not, you know, they might have gone
into this hoping to get some concessions
and and it's possible that there is some
uh concession, you know, that's uh in
the future. Uh some kind of promise that
was made. It's it's hard it's hard to
know. Um you know, exactly what was
promised overnight. Well, I think we'll
find out that that in the coming days,
but look, I think at the bottom line is
if you know, if you're a Republican, uh
do you support extending the 2017 tax
cuts? You know, do you support more
border money? do you support when I'm
running for defense? You know, all the
things that are in this bill. Um it's
you it's you're going to vote no because
of you know, one of your concerns. Now,
obviously, the size of the deficit is a
pretty cosmic concern, but um you know,
you're just uh you're not going to um
materially change that at this point in
the process uh or as really one
individual uh member of Congress. I
mean, I think the the pieces that are in
this bill are the pieces that needed to
be in there uh for you get you to get a
majority in the House and and a majority
in the Senate. Given how significantly
it does increase the deficit, how much
does that really put the onus on these
tariff negotiations, the trade
negotiations to raise revenue from some
key trading partners? We got the
Vietnamese agreement uh overnight. We
have a whole host of others that might
be in the pipeline. Do you expect there
to be a lot of a firmer line because of
the revenue needed?
I honestly think that these things are
completely um unlin. Um I think the
president wants higher tariffs because
he believes in higher tariffs and I
don't think that the tariff revenue uh
uh played any meaningful role uh for
hardly any members in in terms of uh
looking at this bill. Um the president
is not focused on the deficit. Um, you
know, just thinking about this bill,
which does add uh to the deficit. Um,
you know, the president proposed
trillions in additional tax cuts and and
took off the table the biggest programs.
He's not focused on the deficit. That's
not why he's doing these tariffs. He
wants higher tariffs because he believes
he's a protectionist. That's why he
wants higher tariffs. So, I really don't
think there's a a link here. Um, also, I
mean, some of these tariffs, if if it
works the way the president wants it to
work, like the product tariffs result in
bringing um manufacturing back home,
well, then they shouldn't raise any
revenue down the road, right? I mean,
the steel and aluminum tariffs, if it
succeeds the way the president wants it
to, it shouldn't raise hardly any any
money. So, uh, so I really don't think
this is about money. I think this is
about the president trying to completely
reorder um, US trade. Andy, appreciate
the views as always. Thank you, sir.
Andy Le Perry there of Piper Sandler.
The next stop of course after we get
through the tax bill, we get through
payrolls. Next week, July 9th, the
deadline, the self-imposed deadline to
negotiate trade agreements with the
United States of America. Happening
right now in the United Kingdom, it's
been a volatile 24 hours for British
assets. Sakir Stalmer, the British Prime
Minister, speaking at the moment,
saying, "I have every faith in the
Chancellor. We work in log." Yeah. And
uh Rachel Reeves, the chancellor,
declined to answer any questions about
why she was observed having a tear
running down her cheek in the Commons.
And this really raises the question,
what will it take for Kier Starmmer and
Rachel Reeves to uh reduce or reverse
some of the selloff that we saw
yesterday in response to this feeling
that maybe Kier Starmer was trying to
distance himself from Reeves policies
after he did an about face with respect
to certain welfare reforms. And then it
raised some real questions about the
fiscal sustainability of the UK
government and then the market got him
back in line. Exactly. We've seen that a
few times so far in 2025. That's a
conversation we'll have in just a moment
with George Salvados over at Deutsche
Bank. Plus, Danny Burgerer with your
morning movers and a new member of the
S&P 500 from New York City this morning.
Good morning. You're watching Blimbo TV.
[Music]
Two hours away from the jobs report just
around the corner. Record highs coming
into Thursday. Payrolls Thursday. It's
hard to get used to. Don't get used to
it. It's not going to happen again
anytime soon. futures on the S&P
unchanged on the NASDAQ also with a few
hours until the opening power. Let's get
you some morning movers with Danny
Burger. Morning Danny. Hey John. Well,
we learned that the US would be lifting
lifting license requirements for chip
design companies to be selling into
China. It's part of the trade deal and
in exchange as we've been learning the
contours of US and China's deal. They
would be getting more rare earth
minerals for the US. But in some that
means for companies like Synopsis and
Cadence Design Systems that sell the
software that are necessary to design
chips that they can now sell into China.
For these companies, it's at least a
tenth of their sales. You can see the
big reaction. 6.5% 5.8% respectively for
the companies. Also some sellside moves
this morning. A double upgrade by PN BNP
Xane to FedEx saying that this company
is way oversold and that it's
outperforming its peer UPS. that yes it
has competition from Amazon but it is
still outperforming in that context so
shares up one and a third percent the
last one more sort of a technical thing
probably the best name of any publicly
traded company data dog at design
software they are now joining the S&P
500 Dow and S&P announced this yesterday
it's replacing Juniper which is getting
taken out because it's being bought by
HPE because a lot of passive money flows
into the S&P that's automatically a boon
for the shares so those are up more than
9% Danny, thank you. Appreciate the
update. Big rally there in the
pre-market. On our radar this morning,
one of our top stories, the House moving
towards a final vote on President
Trump's tax and spending bill after
clearing a procedural hurdle. Speaker
Johnson saying Republicans have the
votes needed to pass the bill despite a
handful of holdouts remaining. So, a
real question here is what did those
hold outs get in order to get on board
because there were a couple of nos that
turned into yes. What I find interesting
is only 12% of participants in a
Deutsche Bank survey thought that the US
fiscal deficit will significantly
influence the market in the next year.
And right now it seems as though there
is a level of impunity at least in the
United States about the deficit
increasing over time. A majority of
those surveyed thinks that it will make
a difference. So this sort of speaks to
the different ination and the way that
people are responding to what's getting
passed in one number 425 10-year bond
yields at 425 which is pretty low
considering where people thought we
might be a few months ago totally
contained and a lot of people think that
as much as people cry about bond
vigilantes they don't tend to wake up
until there's really a a key question uh
that arises about fiscal sustainability
and that's nowhere near for the United
States. That said, longer term, you see
it the 30-year getting a little itchy
and you can kind of expect that to
continue. Bon's down this morning by two
basis points on 10s. Call it 426 now
down at the front end by two to three
basis points. The two-year yield at 376.
Elsewhere, the US and Vietnam reaching a
trade deal after weeks of negotiations.
Vietnam agreeing to a 20% tariff on
exports to the US, doubling to 40% on
goods trans shship through the country.
In return, Vietnam dropping all levies
on US imports. Yeah, although that's a
little bit uh I don't know, a little
gratuitous given the fact that it's not
as though Vietnam is importing tons of
goods from the United States. So, it's
probably an easy ask considering all the
paniply of of potential options by the
United States. The bigger issue here is
certainty and you pointed this out
earlier and I think it's really
important. the likes of Nike, Lululemon,
the likes of On Holding, all rallying
because at least they understood that it
was a level that allowed them to keep
producing in Vietnam where they have
shifted a lot of the supply chains from
China while passing on some of it to the
consumer, absorbing some of it and not
being overly punitive. Certainty seems
to be triumphant even amid a higher
tariff environment. Is that how low the
bar is now? Yes. Into July 9th.
Absolutely. It seems like people are
shrugging it off and what they've seen
is it's not overly inflationary.
consumers are strong enough to absorb it
on the margins and overall companies
adapt and adjust. The trans shipping
tariff, if we can call it that, you've
got to do something then about
Indonesia, got to do something about
Thailand as well. You've got to secure
all the other countries or all that
traffic, all that trade is just going to
find itself going elsewhere. Yeah. And
this really raises the question, the
spectre between China and the US as they
continue to negotiate given the fact
that ultimately China's waking up to the
idea that this is a key part of the
negotiations for the United States with
other uh regional players that do a lot
of business with them. Let's talk about
China. The US lifting curbs on exports
of designed software for semiconductors
to China in a sign that the trade deal
between the two countries is in effect.
In exchange, Beijing pledging to speed
up approvals for critical mineral
exports. Is this the so-called Geneva
Accords from a number of months ago?
This is so deeply confusing. This was
supposed to be done weeks ago in terms
of getting the rare earth minerals back
into the United States. Then there was
the renegotiation of the Geneva
agreement where okay, now those rare
earths are going to come through and the
likes of Ford have been halting some of
their production of cars because of the
lack of magnets from China. Those can
all restart. But even then the rare
earth imports to the United States had
been falling. So now maybe another bone
will be thrown to them in the form of
software tied to AI production. And
maybe this time it will work. It just
raises the question who has the leverage
and how far have we actually negotiated
a deal between the US and China. They're
going to keep fighting for that
leverage. That's for sure. That's a
story with trade. We need to sum up the
last 24 hours in markets specifically in
the UK. Markets rebounding from a sharp
sell-off in the last 24 hours. Prime
Minister Kalma giving us full backing to
Chancellor Rachel Reeves after stoking
concerns about her future in the role.
Joining us now from the city of London
is Bloomberg's Adam Blenford. Adam,
welcome to the program, sir. For the
people who are on vacation and might
have come back this morning, how would
you describe what's happened in the last
24 hours?
Um it's been one of those uh those
intensely personal moments in politics
uh where we sometimes have to look um
you know a little more deeply about
where the where the links between um the
pressures of the political job the
importance of international financial
markets and then the human cost of some
of this also um comes into focus. We saw
a tearful UK chancellor of the exchecker
in the House of Commons yesterday um as
um unrelated to but at the same time as
Prime Minister K Starmmer uh didn't
overtly give her his backing. They've
had a really tumultuous uh week or so
with the failure of a bill uh where they
were trying to push through5 billion
pounds of spending cuts from welfare
payments. It's really pushed the
pressure on her, focused the pressure on
her fiscal plans and her economic plans.
Um and uh and and and there the
speculation was that whether that had
kind of weighed on her yesterday and
what was going on. Starma then really
backed her viciferously in an overnight
interview with the BBC and has come out
all guns blazing this morning in terms
of backing his chancellor saying that
she they're working in lock step.
They're thinking in the same way and
that she's going to be in position for a
very long time that um and then even in
the last half an hour the two of them
have appeared together. Starma was there
on a pre-arranged speech and Reeves made
a slightly surprise appearance in which
she came and she mentioned and
reinforced the idea that she's committed
to the fiscal rules uh which are part of
the obviously of her economic plan.
Starhalmer denied that this was all an
opportunity to try and calm the markets.
But as you showed just before the
segment, those uh international bond
markets are slightly calmed this morning
by uh what has been really a fullcourt
press to try and um and and convince
them that uh the the economic and
financial and government leadership in
the UK is in place and things are
stable. Adam Blenford over in the UK.
Adam, thank you. summarized in the last
24 hours incredibly volatile in the
United Kingdom. Begs the question, who's
in charge right now, the prime minister
or the 10-year guilt yield? Right now,
it's the 10-year guilt yield. If you
look at the reversal, though he'll deny
that, you know, British politics love a
good drama in British politics. It seems
like US politics are very dramatic, but
lack that same kind of level of personal
uh drama and and poignency that we're
experiencing with either a head of
lettuce or the tear in the comments.
Haven't seen tears this morning in the
house, have we? No, we haven't. might
see them later. Maybe from exhaustion
from Hakee Jeffrey speaking. I think
he's wrapped up by the way. All right,
so we can expect I saw them on their
feet and applauding moments ago. We'll
see. Joining us now to extend some of
this conversation, not the last bit, but
the bit about foreign exchange and
politics. George joins us now, George
Saravel of Deutsche Bank. George,
welcome to the program, sir. This EM
type dynamic which keeps gripping
developed markets over the past, I'd say
12 months, maybe even longer. George,
how are you explaining that to clients
at the moment?
Um well our view is it has more to go.
Uh it's uh it's here to stay and I think
the critical uh driver of all of this is
that fiscal deficits everywhere um are
going up. And of course this was the
case for the US over the last two three
years. But the really big shift since
the start of the year is if you look at
all the countries outside of the US with
the UK being one exception. Uh but
everyone's increasing fiscal spending
again. uh Canada, uh Germany, uh China's
frontloading. We're seeing discussions
in Japan. And I think it's this global
increase in deficits combined with
sticky inflation that is creating these
tensions as far as this discussion goes.
Well, George, let's talk about the
tension specifically in the United
Kingdom. Just yesterday, the pound and
British assets get an absolutely whips
presumably over the future of Chancellor
Reeves, but I wonder if it's something
bigger than that. Is it about her future
or the inability of this government to
consolidate spending?
I I think there's two problems on the
UK. There's the communication problem
and a macro problem. Uh the
communication one is that effectively
these fiscal rules that are extremely
clumsy. Um you see they're dependent on
projections which the OB has five years
out productivity which no one believes
and every time you see some shift in
guilt yields the market starts talking
about gaps. Uh, and I think that just
creates a a broader problem of of
instability and we see that. And then
there's the broader macro problem which
I would argue applies just as much to
the UK as it does to the US which is
both of these countries are running big
twin deficits. And that is why you're
seeing increased vulnerability to
negative news. We experienced it in
April uh in the US with the whole
liberation day back and forth and now
we're seeing a small micro version of
that in the UK. But I would say both the
UK and the US have those two common uh
denominators, external deficit and
internal deficit, and that's going to be
causing problems. There's a big
difference though between the two, and
we're watching it in real time as the
United Kingdom tries to figure out how
to message their deficit spending and
how they plan to cut or not uh from some
of those expenditures. In the United
States, Congress just keeps on spending
and they're about to pass a bill that
increases the deficit over the next 10
years by some three and a half four
trillion dollars. Why is the US such a
different market when it comes to
dynamics and how much the bond market is
waking up to this?
So, you're absolutely right. the US has
had a greater degree of resilience so to
speak, but I would argue since the start
of the year, you're actually seeing
convergence whereby the US is becoming
more sensitive to these things. Now, of
course, over the last uh few months, the
market has calmed down. But let's not
forget what happened uh in April. And I
would say a key driver of why the market
has calmed down is because we've had
some downside surprises to inflation.
And of course, the bond market is most
sensitive to those inflation surprises.
So let's see what happens over the next
six months. But between the UK and the
US, I'm a lot more concerned about the
the US because if I look at the shocks
hitting the system at the moment in the
US, not only do you have the tariff
discussion which everyone is so focused
on, but the bigger underlying shock in
my view is the labor market where you're
seeing a very sharp reduction in
immigration which is equivalent to a
sharp slowdown in growth and potentially
upside surprises to inflation. And that
is the worst mix if you're thinking
about debt sustainability and the
funding of those twin deficits. So the
immigration story to me is much bigger
than the tariff story as far as the US
goes. So George, if we could just uh
sort of solidify this parallel, if you
see the United States as being a more
significant story and frankly a worse
story than the United Kingdom, which is
experience a lot experiencing a lot more
real-time volatility in their markets.
What do you think will be a the breaking
point and b the consequence for both the
dollar and long-term yields that have
been relatively calm amid this process?
So there's two ways this can get
resolved. Uh as you say it can either be
a calm way or it can be a disorderly
way. Um the calm way is what we've seen
over the last few weeks where the dollar
weakens as the dollar weakens
effectively assets cheapen up. You can
draw in those marginal buyers. Uh we
also authored a piece uh talking about a
Pennsylvania plan which effectively I
think is being realized the US Treasury
shortens the issuance of duration. The
domestic banks the pension funds absorb
the debt so foreigners can disengage
from the bond market. I think that's the
orderly uh plan. The disorderly one is
if the negative supply shock I was
discussing becomes more acute, you get
much bigger inflation surprises and at
the same time Fed independence gets
challenged and we're seeing that in the
background. Well, arguably not in the
background, in the foreground with some
of the statements, the reason the
market's calm is because inflation is
calm. But if that growth inflation mix
worsens
that fiscal dominance question I think
will come back to the four very very
quickly and that's where you get the
tipping point to disorderly dynamics.
Yeah George I'm pleased you corrected
yourself because it's certainly not
happening in the background. The
president is not being subtle about it
at all. George, thank you sir. George
Saravevel there of Deutsche Bank on a
jobs data on a payrolls report a little
bit later and on this Federal Reserve.
You know Deutsche Bank put out a report
just talking about George saying that
only 16% of respondents believe that the
Fed is completely independent. That to
me was shocking. That's a problem. That
is a big problem. 25% think that
political pressure will lead to lower
rates and you have seen rate
expectations come in the more that
President Trump job owns Fed Sher J.
Powell. The immigration story is huge.
It is massive for the number later on
this morning. That's the big debate
happening state side. If you're just
tuning into this and maybe you're
sitting outside the United States
looking in, there's a big conversation
about just how much im immigration has
been reduced, what that means for the
so-called break even rate in the labor
market. Maybe we only need 100k in jobs
growth and unemployment can still hold
pretty steady. Yeah. And to build on
that, this idea that George was talking
about, we saw this in the Jolts data on
the margins. The idea that job openings
were growing because potentially people
were losing services, jobs from
immigrants going home and wages maybe
going up just a touch because people had
to offer more to bring uh domestic labor
on board raises the question of that
kind of stagflationary mix that George
was talking about that becomes very hard
to counteract. 106 sounds low. It might
not be called weak later on this
morning. 106,000 is the estimate in our
survey for payrolls at 8:30 Eastern
time. The previous number 139 with an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief is Danny Ber.
Hey Danny. Hey John. President Trump's
one big beautiful bill is on its way to
a final vote in the House. Republicans
cleared a procedural hurdle to advance
the tax and spending bill earlier this
morning. As you can see, debate is still
underway, but once that finishes, it
sets up a vote later this morning ahead
of Trump's self-imposed July 4th
deadline. and we will bring you those
developments as they happen throughout
the morning. Elsewhere, Microsoft is
cutting about 9,000 workers or less than
4% of its workforce. It's the second
major wave of layoffs this year as
Microsoft looks to rain in cost while
ramping up AI spend. The most recent
cuts are met to streamline process and
management layers. Microsoft also cut
6,000 workers in May. And some tragic
news in the world of sports this
morning. Liverpool football star Diego
Jot has been killed in a car accident in
Spain. The 28-year-old father of three
married his childhood sweetheart less
than two weeks ago. Jot's 26-year-old
brother, Andre, also a professional
footballer, was killed in the crash.
Really tragic news this morning. And
that's your brief, John. Hey Danny,
thank you. Absolutely tragic. Up next on
the program, watch it. The hard data.
The data has been so resilient. So, I
think that the cuts really can't happen
unless you get actual hard data that
begins to fall in line with the soft
data that we've seen where there's been
quite a bit of weakness. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Sarah House
of Wells Fargo.
[Music]
Unfortunately, this might be a a long
morning tracking events down in
Washington DC. I can confirm that the
House Minority Leader Hakee Jeff is
still speaking. He's still going and he
might still be going in a few hours
time. Yeah, our understanding is he's
currently going through some Medicaid
stories as he uh prepares for the final
vote of this bill. What is the objective
here? What is the purpose of just
talking for this long? Who's it for? The
American public or for his peers, his
colleagues in the House? What's this
about? I mean, yes, this is sort of the
evergreen question, right? a lot of the
grandstanding, the little clips, a lot
of the testimony that we see with Jay
Powell that we wonder why did that
person ask that random esoteric question
and then not let the person finish
because they want to clip it and put it
on social media and so yes, that seems
to be where we are today. The House is
slowly getting closer to a full final
vote on the one big beautiful bill
making some progress overnight. Have
some more thoughts for you on this
throughout this morning. Elsewhere,
waiting for the jobs report that should
drop on time at 8:30 Eastern time.
Equity futures at the moment on the S&P
just about positive on the S&P 500
higher by 0.02%.
Under Sylvanas this morning we're
watching the hard data. The data has
been so resilient. So I think that the
cuts really can't happen unless you get
actual hard data that begins to fall in
line with the soft data that we've seen
where there's been quite a bit of
weakness. If we see a sub 100,000 job
and certainly a negative jobs number,
that would start to create the narrative
of weak hard data that would allow the
Fed to cut rates. Here's the latest this
morning. Investors counting down to the
payrolls report out in less than 2 hours
time. Wells Fargo cut its outlook to
100K from 115 after the ADP report
showed a surprising decline. Sarah House
of Wells Fargo joins us now for more.
Sarah, welcome. A lot of people have
come on the program in the last few days
and said, "Ignore the headline number."
How misleading might the headline number
be later this morning? Yeah. So, I think
you really need to dig into the details
of of this report. So, you know, we saw
a decent headline number last month, but
as under the surface, you saw really
narrow breath. I think so. That's
another important facet we'll be looking
at. As even as the the break even rate
of non-farm payrolls may be slowing, you
still need to see a widespread growth
across industries for it to be durable.
And that's just something we we haven't
seen. I think the other thing you'll
need to be watching is what actually
happens with the unemployment rate as
the Fed officials uh we've already seen
that move towards the top end of where
they think full employment is. And so I
think seeing that drift up further I
think could progress these discussions
of okay maybe we do need to begin
cutting rates over over the next couple
months. Sarah you mentioned that process
the so-called break even rate may be
coming in maybe lower than it was 12 18
months ago. How much lower? What kind of
number are you and the team thinking
about? Yeah, so when we look at the
immigration effects and just the fact
that you're likely to see an outright
decline in in the immigrant population
this year. So you we're thinking
probably somewhere around 90,000. So,
you know, we had a report out yesterday
um suggest uh from the AEI suggesting
that it could be significantly lower,
even somewhere down 40,000, but I think
um right now probably sub 100,000 would
is is where we're looking at just given
some of those immigration dynamics as
well as just the slower growth in in the
native population that we've seen.
Sarah, just to build to what George
Saravellis was talking about, he thinks
that the market is not counting enough
the sort of stagflationary ramifications
from the drop off in immigration. the
idea that it could reduce productivity
in effect an increased costs uh the
inflationary boost that people don't
want to see. Do you think that the
numbers back that up in any way? Well, I
think if you look at the distribution of
foreignb born workers in in the economy
so a lot of them in a lot of them in
construction um some in some cases areas
that are harder to actually see some
significant productivity gains. And so I
think um especially when you look at
construction that's already a fairly
tight labor market as well. So see
certainly the potential to see upward
pressure on there. Other areas like
leisure and hospitality again where it's
maybe not quite as easy to to see some
additional productivity gains. And so I
do see that as a potential offset to the
broader headwinds that we're seeing in
the labor market right now coming from
still tight monetary policy and of
course still a lot of economic policy
uncertainty. We started this hour with
Max Kentner of HSBC saying that he
didn't care what happened and that he
didn't actually think that it mattered
what the numbers show because they had
been so messy and he'd already drawn his
conclusion from other numbers. Can you
give us a defense of why this number
matters? It's a piece of the puzzle and
it's a very important piece. But I agree
that the NFP numbers you have to take
them in some ways with with a grain of
salt, especially that first print. So
we've saw that pattern of downward
revisions reemerge. were seeing still a
pretty significant gap with the QCW data
that inform those benchmark revisions.
So all of that point to the the payroll
gains recently still being overstated.
And so I think there you know it's
reasonable to okay you still want to pay
attention to this headline number. It's
still generally considered the gold
standard. The Fed puts a lot of weight
on it but understanding that this is
again just one piece of the overall
labor market puzzle. Sarah, thanks for
your view on things. Sarah House there
of Wells Fargo looking ahead to the
payroll report later on this morning.
How many people have told us to ignore
the headline number and just focus on
unemployment, focus on that one data
point and that'll tell you a whole lot
more. Yeah. And a number of people will
argue that even don't focus on that.
Maybe we should have gone to the beach.
John, what were we thinking? Because
essentially one person after another
says that things have gotten so noisy.
What's the point anymore? Max is just
ignoring it all right over at HSBC.
Apparently the labor market doesn't
matter to him. Well, it's sort of this
question of which data matters,
especially if you have downward
revisions uh down the line or
potentially upward revisions. Key point
that I think is you have a lot of very
smart people who have been coming out
saying opposite things looking at the
same data and that I think points to the
confusion of the moment that we're in.
To Slock of Apollo will join us on the
program a little bit later this morning
after we get the payrolls report after
Mike McKe has broken those numbers.
Torsson will respond to them. He just
put this out. Unemployment rate is
expected to move higher. That's his call
for this morning and maybe beyond in the
next several months. Yeah. So, how much
higher for the market to wake up to it
rather than just say, "Okay, time for
the beach." It's with us a little bit
later this morning before of course we
all head to the beach. Up next on the
program, Pierre Misra of JP Morgan,
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall, Sarah Wolf of
Morgan Stanley, and Michael Collins of
Py. The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance is up next.
[Music]
In general, we think that momentum is
still positive and and again, we would
be overweight risk assets. You're
walking into the bond market have to do
it with open eye. I hope the third
quarter is nothing like the second
quarter. I would love that quarter over
again. We're not going to get it. The
tail risk have been trimmed off and the
worst cases have been walked back.
People are underappreciating the risk to
the upside. This is Bloomberg
surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
It is payroll Thursday, 90 minutes away
from the jobs report heading into the
long weekend at alltime highs on the S&P
500, at least so far. Equities this
morning slightly positive on both the
S&P and on the NASDAQ 100 going into
this at 8:30 Eastern time. The estimate
in our survey, job gains, payrolls
growth of 106,000, the previous number
139, and a lot more attention on the
unemployment rate because there is this
mismatch of are we just seeing an entire
labor market that is shrinking,
contracting as immigrants do not come
into this country and uh continue to
migrate out. This is really the key
question. Do we understand the dynamics
of a labor market that is so
dramatically in flux that not only do
you have the immigration picture, but
you've got the AI picture and then you
have the hesitation of a lack of
certainty around policy that's hampering
higher plans. You put this all together
and you've got Max Ker going to the
beach early because it is so confusing
that some people are just discounting it
all together. The chairman of the
Federal Reserve can't go to the beach
early. He's been called out already on
social media going into this number too
late. His nickname from the president
should resign immediately apparently. If
you look at the dual mandate at the
moment, inflation around 2%, full
employment. We have got to have the
debate which side of the dual mandate
right now is most at risk. Yeah. And
that ultimately is a debate that they
don't have the answer to. They do though
lean into the idea that the labor market
and the US economy is strong enough to
give them the luxury of waiting it out
and getting more data. Potentially those
three CPI prints before the September
meeting as a number of different Fed
members have indicated. This is a point
of disagreement. There are a lot of
people in the market who agree with the
moniker too late. Even though, by the
way, too late Powell has just turned
into too late, that's actually a name.
Is that really where we are right now?
Apparently, yeah. Chairman Powell
himself acknowledged that he was a
little bit late last year when he
started reducing interest rates. So
maybe he's going with that. Okay. And
pretty much no one in markets agreed
with him that it was too late because
the market uh saw some people thought it
was too early. Some people thought it
was too much. It just points to the fact
that we're in a deeply uncertain moment
and really people are questioning the
fundamental argument that this is a
strong US economy that can withstand
interest rates at these levels. That is
a crucial debate and it is being muddied
by the political overlay of oh yeah you
reduce it to 1% that benchmark rate we
can borrow then and then we can lower
the overall costs of the US government
debt market which no one really is
thinking is going to happen. You've
mentioned Max Caner of HSBC a few times.
He joined us about an hour ago,
basically ignoring the jobs number at
8:30 Eastern time. And I think that
speaks to a lot of investors at the
moment ready to move on. Ready to move
on from the tax bill, which a lot of
people assume will pass later on this
morning in the House. Ready to move on
from the trade story on July 9th. We
brought up Vietnam a few times now. The
fact of the matter is this market has
been so anchored to the extreme that
they're willing to accept a 20% tariff
on Vietnam just because it wasn't 46.
The 46 we heard on April 2nd. Sorry. I'm
so glad you said this and I apologize in
advance because I want to take out my
little soap box, get on top of it and
start. But I'm not going to warn we
don't have all morning and everybody
will turn off the TV if they haven't
already. But there is this question of
what does all priced in mean, right? Is
it just being pegged to an extreme? Is
it that people have gotten so burned by
trying to short anything or to sell
anything that they don't want to do it
again and so they say everything is
priced in and they are just benumbed to
the different realities? Is it because
people are sick of being bearish? What
does priced in mean at a time when we
don't even understand where we are
economically to the degree where people
are ignoring a labor market report that
typically was the lynch pin of so many
economic projections? I'm done. Thank
you. So now I'd give you a first clap.
I'd give you a first clap. Conditioned
by the experience of the past few
months. Yes. Sick of missing out on
gains. Yes. To see the market hit the
lows of April 8th, then rally 20% plus
on the S&P, more than 30% on the NASDAQ.
That will reinforce behavior. That will
condition you. You know what changes it?
Data. Yes. When you start getting hit
around the face with data that moves in
the other direction, that's when you
start to wake up. And to build on that,
how much has this market become more
vulnerable to a downside shock because
of that conditioning? And this sounds
really gloomy. So, I'm going to stop
because it's not necessarily gloomy.
Nobody wants you to stop this morning.
Well, but there is this feeling that uh
I don't know how prepared a market is
for a downside surprise of the economy
at a time where people feel pretty good
about everything. Equities on the S&P
just about positive. The jobs report
about 86 minutes away. Coming up this
hour, Premisser of JP Morgan with stocks
hitting fresh all-time highs. Sarah Wolf
of Morgan Stanley counting down to
payrolls and Mike Collins of PGM with
President Trump continuing his attacks
on Chairman Pal. We begin this hour with
stocks higher investors counting down to
the payrolls report due a little bit
later this morning. Premiser of JP
Morgan writing it's a low higher low
fire labor market. Economists expect the
slowing and hiring to continue but if
the monthly pace is lower for the break
even rate and the unemployment rate is
around 4.3%. There is no urgency for the
Fed to cut. Pria joins us now for more.
Pria, good morning. Morning. The Fed
chair says the economy is solid. Will we
see that at 8:30 Eastern time? You know,
I think we'll see a slowing. All the
soft data has been suggesting slowing.
Uh the labor differential is sort of
worsening. I think it while it's clear
it's slowing what's the level? If it's
100,000 even I would say a 90,000 that's
in line with consensus. That's in line
with potentially a new break even rate
that's much lower. So we're going to
look at um average hourly earnings.
We're going to look at that distribution
of those payroll gains. We're going to
look at the unemployment rate. If it's
4.3 what has been saying is this is a
resilient labor market. there is, you
know, there's no inflation pressure that
I'm going to be watching because, you
know, I think in inflation is the reason
why the Fed is not reducing the level of
restrictiveness, but if it's an okay
economy, they're going to wait because
they know the tariff impact takes a
while. It's only been 3 months since
liberation day. The Fed knows that goods
inflation's likely to pick up. So,
they'll want to see how persistent is
that, what happens to service inflation.
So, if the labor market's okay, their
urgency to cut goes down. I think the
front end is a little vulnerable uh in
that scenario, but I still think it's
it's asymmetric. Meaning, if you get a
50,000 payroll, we look at the
unemployment rate, but that 50,000, I
don't think anyone's, you know, think it
is going to spook the market. It's going
to spook not just the rate market, it's
also going to spook the equity market
that's in this soft landing la. I think
there's some complacency there, which is
what Lisa is going nuts about already
this morning. Okay, the soft landing la.
It's not totally fair. There is real AI,
but yeah, it seems like people are very
rosy. Before we get into the market, can
I just pick up on that word slow? We've
had this debate all week. Slow is not
necessarily weak. There are structural
factors, cyclical factors. If we get a
slowdown in payrolls growth, is that the
consequence of immigration or the
slowdown in the economy? Which one is
it? I think it's both. Um, and you know,
that's not a copout answer. The reason
for that is the structural weakness you
could see even before, even before the
immigration drop. If you look at last
year or the year before, it was a highly
concentrated labor market, meaning it
was uh education and health. It was
leisure, hospitality. That's the
structural aspect you're talking about.
The new graduate hiring, why is that so
weak? That's maybe the AI story. So, I
think you know th those are the
structural aspects. Now, where is
immigration kicking in? That's going to
we haven't really seen it in
construction, but that would be one
area. Leisure, hospitality, we're seeing
it a little bit in JOL. So, I think it's
a confluence. I mean that's what we've
been dealing with all year is a lot of
these structural factors and the
cyclical and the market has to sort of
price both in and but I think on the
labor market front the slowing is both
we're going to see I think the
immigration one the Fed might not worry
that much about because if they're
leaving the labor force is there
actually some wage pressure that's
picking up the structural story is one
where they have to be concerned because
that means that wage pressures in the
rest of the economy are not high that
can allow them to maybe look through
this uh you know tariff related uh
increase in inflation that we're likely
to get. Here's one reason why I actually
believe what Max is saying and as much
as I've been gloomy I understand the
view that the US economy can adapt and
adjust and roll through this without
some sort of significant downturn. We've
seen these economic cycles that are
different from one another depending on
the industry and we've seen them
operating at different times with the
psy cyclical uh versus some of the
structural issues and that's been a help
because it's actually kept a floor under
how low and how weak the economy could
get. Do you see that going away or is
that going to be a feature that
continues and continues to support this
market from some of the worst case
scenarios? So you bring a great point. I
think businesses if they have a little
bit of certainty they can plan which is
why I think the market cheered the
Vietnam deal which I saw and said oh
it's 20%. That's higher than what we
thought we thought was going to be 10%
on the rest of the world maybe 25 30 on
China this is 20 plus 40% on trans
shipment and then I thought maybe the
market just wants certainly I think
businesses know that's what they're paid
to do to manage around the new rules of
the game. So if they know what the new
rules of the game are, I think that they
can plan around it. The problem is
uncertainty is a you know is is it a
feature or a bug? I would say it's a
feature of this administration.
Secretary Besson has called it strategic
uncertainty. Are we going to have all
the certainty around trade? Unlikely.
Are we going to have certainty around
deregulation? Maybe taxes. We'll get
some certainty that taxes are not going
up. Everyone expected that. So and but
but to your earlier point I think
private sector balance sheets are
healthy. So which is why I think the
economy has been able to withstand high
you know interest rates for the last few
years. There was a lot of fiscal support
as well. Fortunately fiscal support's
not going away. So you know I don't want
to sound too negative. I just think that
growth is likely to be below potential.
Recession is not our base case. As long
as the tail risks that have receded and
the markets price that in as long as
those tail risks don't come back we get
some certainty. I think we're looking at
a 1% GDP that soft landing below
potential growth. I think that's our
base case. But I do worry the more
uncertainty we live with the more
companies remain frozen and consumers
look at consumer spending in the first
half of this year. It's not been strong.
It's the weakest since 2009 if you
exclude COVID. Consumers step back and
companies step back and then not doing
anything is saying something right. We
are getting some certainty though and
right now as soon as we finish with the
magic minute in Congress with Hakeem
Jeff, we might get a vote and then we'll
get a bill that actually does get passed
and we will bring forward some of that
stimulative effect as you were talking
about uh the fiscal impulse not going
away completely from Washington DC. At
what point do you worry about what
George Cavellos is worried about the
sort of twin deficit experience that
we're seeing over in the United Kingdom
coming to the United States because
we're not really seeing that dynamic
right now. We're not. Now, you know, a
couple of points on that. On the twin
deficit issue, that is a long-term
structural issue. It's the reason why we
need foreign capital. We've got a
current account deficit. We've got a
fiscal deficit. So, we need foreigners
to buy US assets. Our view is that is
still happening. All of the data since
April suggests that where auctions are
fine, take data, custody holding, we are
seeing investors hedge effects and
that's why the dollar continues to
weaken. Now, the question is markets are
forward looking. Will that continue? you
know, I would say if the US economy
remains solid, if some of the
uncertainty goes away, it was still the
deepest most uh you know uh liquid
capital markets in the world. So I think
foreign capital coming into the US
remains. So I'm less concerned around
that ddollarization around US assets.
But the other uh issue with the twin
deficit is we are earning a lot in
tariff revenues. I mean I'm not talking
about whether tariffs are a good thing.
The economist in me doesn't love the
idea of tariffs, but it's going to raise
according to the CBO 2.8 trillion over
the next 10 years. The bill, the fiscal
bill is worth about 3 trillion. Like
fairly close, though the math works out.
If you think that the endgame, you look
at the, you know, signal from the noise
is we're going to have some tariff on
the rest of the world, 10 20% a higher
number on China. that's going to raise
revenues and that twin deficit problem
becomes a little less concerning than it
was 6 months ago because yes, the
deficit's an issue we've got and that's
why I think tariffs are not going away.
It's very appealing to Congress and to
the administration if they're able to
raise money through that tariff channel.
So, I'm a little less concerned the UK
needs to take hard decisions. We'll talk
about the UK another time. Your point on
the US and tariffs nailed it. the
biggest test of the Democrats the next
several years. What do they campaign on?
When the money starts to trickle in, are
they going to campaign on removing these
tariffs? We saw what happened last time
around with China didn't touch them.
This time around, they're going to be a
whole lot higher, but when you start to
get that income, are they actually going
to campaign on removing those tariffs?
This is the reason why people say it's
so hard to remove tariffs because you
are structurally changing the way that
the United States earns money. And after
Smooth Holly in the 1930s, it took a
very long time to get those tariffs off
precisely because of this. It is
politically unpopular to raise taxes in
order to offset any kind of income that
you're getting from tariffs. And that's
essentially what the Democrats might
have to do. A few months ago, Priz of JP
Morgan was on this program and called
the 30-year bond a risk asset. What do
you think the next question is going to
be in the next segment? Prizer of JP
Morgan is going to stick with us. That
risk asset this morning yields are lower
on it. Down by a basis point, a 30-year
at the moment, 479. With an update on
stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief is Danny Ber. Hey Danny. Hey John.
The House of Representatives is on track
to pass President Trump's one big
beautiful bill this morning ahead of
Trump's self-imposed deadline of July
4th. Minority Leader Hakee Jeff, you can
see there, has been speaking on the
floor and has been going at it for more
than two hours. Once he's finished,
voting will begin and we'll bring you
all those developments as they occur
throughout the morning. President Trump
also says Federal Reserve Chair Jay
Powell should resign immediately. This
after the head of the Federal Housing
Finance Agency called on Congress to
investigate Powell, alleging his recent
testimony to the Senate about the
central bank's plan renovations to its
headquarters was deceptive. The Trump
administration has lift chip design
software curbs on China. The move comes
as Washington and Beijing implement a
trade deal. The US Commerce Department
informed the world's three leading chip
design software providers that they no
longer need government licenses to do
business in China. And that's your
brief, John. Danny, thank you. This is
why a lot of politicians become news
network anchors. You know why? The most
fearful word in your ear when you have
to anchor a TV show is when they say the
guest is not there. Yeah. And there's 10
minutes on the clock and you hear this
word and it says stretch. Right. And you
just have to make things up for about 8
to 10 minutes. Ake Jeff would n it,
wouldn't it? Yeah. Although I don't know
if anyone will be reading stories. It's
true. I mean, honestly, I was actually
thinking they'd be very good at, you
know, bloiating for long periods of
time, although people behind them might
be sleeping. What's the channel the
Democrats go on where they sort of get a
job there afterwards? What's it called?
You're not putting this in. No. All
right. Up next.
We're nearing the finish line. We feel
very good about where we are and we're
moving forward. So we are going to
deliver the big beautiful bill, the
president's America first agenda and
we're going to do right by the American
people. Up next on the program,
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Equities
just about positive so far this morning
by close to a tenth of 1%. No drama here
whatsoever. The drama down in Washington
DC at the moment. Working overnight in
the House under surveillance this
morning. We're getting closer to the
finish line. It's been a good day. We're
in a good place right now. This is the
legislative process. This is exactly how
I think the framers intended uh for it
to work. Uh we we feel very good about
where we are and we're moving forward.
So we are going to deliver the big
beautiful bill, the president's America
first agenda and we're going to do right
by the American people. This is going to
be a great thing for the country. Look
forward to moving it forward. Here's the
latest this morning. House Republicans
moving towards a final vote on the big
beautiful bill ahead of President
Trump's self-imposed July 4 deadline.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
for more. Tyler, can you confirm that
the minority leader is still speaking?
Yeah. Hey, John. He is still speaking.
He's afforded something known as the
magic minute, which means he could go as
long as he wants. He started at 4:54
a.m. Eastern. So, we are well beyond the
2hour mark. Now, I'll let somebody else
weigh in on how effective this is as the
House really approaches nearly the
24hour mark of being in session. But,
he's not talking to his tired
colleagues. He's trying to talk to the
voters because Democrats are going to
use the one big beautiful bill as their
campaign messaging during the 2026
midterms because the package at the
moment does appear poised to pass
because once uh leader Jeff is done
speaking, House Speaker Mike Johnson is
afforded the opportunity to start. It's
unclear if he would take it because
Republicans want to get this done as
soon as possible. So, our assumption is
they're going to start voting on
finalized passage once uh Jeff is done.
And the magic number here, as you well
know, is going to be 217 votes. House
Speaker Mike Johnson can only afford to
lose three. And it looks like he does
have the votes if we take the rule, the
vote on the rule earlier today as any
indication. He had 219 Republicans on
board. But John, that meant that one
Republican was a hold out and didn't
vote for it. And it wasn't a House
Freedom Caucus member. It wasn't a
fiscal hawk. In fact, it was Congressman
Brian Fitzpatrick. He represents the
first congressional district in
Pennsylvania. and he raised concerns
about how this package makes changes to
Medicaid. I will point out that he
represents a district that President
Trump actually lost in 2024, which
brings us right back to this
conversation about how this will play
heavily in the midterms. Tyler Kendall,
stay close. We'll come back to you when
this starts to process progress and move
forward a little bit more. Pria Misra of
JP Morgan is still with us around the
table. Pria, I promise you that
question. The 30-year bond in America,
you called it a risk asset. Is it still
a risk asset? It is a risk asset. It's
got much more duration than the 5year,
the 2-year. But you have, are you
getting paid enough for that risk?
That's what markets do. We look at risk
and we see return and we say, are you
being compensated enough? That
compensation has gone up significantly.
How we look at compensation, I mean, I
don't want to bond geek out here. Term
premium, term premium has gone up. But
let's look at the curve. the curve the
the Fed funds to the 30-year curve over
a 100 basis points or two-year 30-year
it rarely the curve is higher than this
when fed funds is high has the curve
been 200 base points absolutely if fed
funds is at zero then the 10ear could be
you know 2% 2 and a half% the long end
can be higher the curve has steepened
the market has understood that the long
end is not should price in more fiscal
risk premium more inflation risk premium
you know two months ago when I was much
more negative on the front end on on the
long end I was worried about can the
president fire chip pow um is there the
sell America trade is that going to take
off are we going to alienate all
investors who want to buy US assets I
think some of those tail risks have been
taken away along with other tail risks
so now I think the longing on a rate
basis actually doesn't look that bad can
that curve keep steepening absolutely if
you get weakness in the data I think the
front end is going to be more uh
sensitive to that the curve likely just,
you know, continues to steepen. We like
the belly of the curve, but on a rate
basis, 480 on the 30 years is not that
bad. How much is this a global story and
has to do with the United States, but
also has to do with Rachel Reeves and
also has to do uh with what's going on
in terms of Friedriic Merits. Yeah, I'm
glad you brought you brought that up. I
meant to say term premium also tends to
be globally uh correlated. You see this
in Germany, you see this now in the UK.
Yesterday was a reminder of 2022.
Fortunately, the market seems a little
more stable today, but there is
increasing fiscal stimulus globally.
There's also this question of demand for
duration and I think what we're seeing
uh DMOS or Treasury departments globally
will have to decide how much do they
want to issue in the long end versus the
front end. The US is going to have to
make that US Treasury has to make that
decision as well. I think as that term
premium as the curve keeps steepening
you're going to see yes there's fiscal
premium but you're going to see not just
in the US globally and we've seen some
signs of that in Japan where these
treasury departments are going to say
let's just issue a little bit further in
the curve that'll bring that supply
demand uh you know better in balance but
absolutely I think yesterday was a
perfect example we had a weak ADP number
now ADP I don't know about its uh
predictability for for non-farm payroll
but as its own series it is weakening
And what did the bond market do in the
US? It looked at the UK. It looked at
Germany and it said, "Okay, rates have
to be higher." So, we have to keep an
eye on everything happening
domestically, but also internationally.
And this higher term premium, steeper
curve, that's a global phenomena, and
it's absolutely going to feed through
into the US. This is a conversation for
the long end of the curve. Let's come
all the way in to the front end of the
curve. The Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson speaking just moments ago to the
American press and saying the following.
Two-year Treasuries are telling you that
the overnight rate is too high. So Fed
funds right now is a range of 425 to
450. If you can bring up the two-year on
the screen, that is sub4% at the moment.
And I wonder from your perspective
whether you would put some weight on the
argument coming from the Treasury
Secretary this morning that because the
2-year yield is so much lower than the
Fed funds that ultimately 376 is
screaming that the overnight rate is too
high. I think that's the market telling
you what the Fed is also telling you. So
it yes I would agree with Secretary
Besson but that's in line with Chair
Powell with the dots. I think there's we
talked about the urgency to cut is not
there with the labor market where it is
with all this inflation risk. You fast
forward 3 4 months and we do think the
inflation rise due to tariffs is going
to be one time. We're seeing service
inflation. I think this was the good
news of the last 3 months apart from the
tail risers being taken away. That
service inflation, housing inflation, ex
shelter service inflation's declining.
And so if that continues, the Fed can
start to normalize policy. That's soft
landing cuts though. That's not what the
president wants. The 200 300 bas. That's
not the amount of cuts that the market's
pricing in or the Fed's telling you. But
getting down to neutral, whether it's
three or three and a half% that's
essentially what the market what the two
years pricing in. And I think it's fair.
I think the market will be very much on
board. I don't think that's a
politicization of the Fed. That's the
Fed doing their job looking at the dual
mandate and saying, "Let's slowly get
down to what we think is neutral." The
Fed committee seems to be a little off
on judgment. The words of the Treasury
Secretary earlier on this morning. Yeah.
When he was asked whether he wants Jay
Powell to resign, he said that there are
a lot of strong candidates for Fed chair
and he expects to name two of them later
this year. It raises this issue. This is
an economic debate that is very real
about whether or not the Fed is behind
the curve or whether it can afford and
should be waiting for a lot longer. To
overlay politics into this just adds
another layer of complication and I
think a lot of people in markets trying
to grapple with both. Does this question
the independence or does this go to the
economic debate that a lot of really uh
strong economists are debating right
now? Pria, this was great. It's good to
see you. Pria Misra there of JP Morgan.
Coming up on this program, Sarah Wolf of
Morgan Stanley as we countdown to the
payrolls report. Plus, Danny Burgerer
with your morning movers. Software
technology companies jumping as the US
lifts export curbs on China.
Equities
[Music]
on the S&P positive by a tenth of 1%.
We're 60 minutes away from the jobs
report in America 2 hours away from the
opening bell. Looking at your morning
movers this morning, here's Danny Ber.
Morning Danny. Good morning, John. Well,
we learned that companies received from
the Trump administration news that they
would be able to sell design for chip
makers into China without needing a
license. Now, that is a change and it is
part of the trade deal between the US
and China. In return, the US gets some
of those critical minerals, but those
companies that sell into China from the
US are rallying in the pre-market. You
can see Synopsis up more than 5% as is
Cadence Design Systems. We also got an
upgrade from Morgan Stanley to a
regional bank this morning. That
regional bank being Valley National.
Morgan Stanley saying that it is at
trading at a steep discount that things
have improved like its balance sheet
like its reduction in exposure to real
estate but the market hasn't fully
realized that. So goes to an overweight
and shares are rallying 1.8%. Now I
mentioned in the last hour that data dog
is rallying because it's been added to
the S&P 500. Well, there were
expectations. Some banks flagged Robin
Hood as maybe one of the stocks that
also could have been a candidate to be
added to the S&P 500 as Juniper gets
taken out. But because Robin Hood wasn't
added, we are seeing shares fall 1.6%.
This just usually happens because
passive money goes into the index. And
so Robin Hood had been rallying on the
expectation that it might go in. John
Danny Burgerer, thank you. Appreciate
the update. More from Danny later on in
the program on our radar this morning.
One of our top stories has Republicans
nearing the finish line, moving towards
a final vote on President Trump's big,
beautiful bill. Debate continuing this
morning with a potential vote on deck
later ahead of Trump's self-imposed July
4th deadline. Yeah, and the debate being
Hakeem Jeff with himself in the book
that he has in front of him during the
magic minute that's gone on for uh a
couple of hours now. And it looks like
he's got about half the binder left to
go through. This raises a question about
a what people were offered to get on
board who were potentially uh nos before
this were was going through the house.
Uh and then b the market's reaction to
this seemingly pretty sanguin about the
deficit and how much this might increase
it. Pri Misra actually being
constructive saying that honestly this
is looking uh like you're going to get a
lot of revenue from tariffs that's not
being counted in this. It might not be
as deficit driving as people are
expecting. still called the 30-year a
risk asset, but likes that risk of 480,
the yield right now on a 30-year bond.
Yeah. Seeing maybe yield steepening, but
a Fed that might be more poised to cut.
A lot of questions around the level
versus the relative value and versus the
relative level tied to the short end.
Very complicated. Nobody wants to really
get into this on a Thursday morning when
they're looking to get to the beach. We
are looking to get the beach at 8:31
Eastern time. 1 minute after the jobs
report a little bit later. The pressure
already building on the chairman of the
Federal Reserve, the president going
into this jobs report saying that too
late should resign immediately. I said
this in the last hour, you know, the
president typically gets to see the
numbers the night before. And when this
came out, a lot of people did ask, has
he already seen the jobs number ahead of
time? Which, you know, goes to a
question that you asked earlier this
week where you said, how are they going
to message a negative number? Are they
going to talk about the immigration
story or are they going to talk about
how the Fed needs to be cutting rates?
I'm not going to speculate as to whether
the the president is responding to
premature numbers that are potentially
market moving, but there is this larger
question of how much is the pressure
building politically and how much is the
pressure building economically for Fed
Chair Jay Powell to potentially move
sooner at a time when there are a lot of
question marks about the trajectory of
this economy. None of us know what the
job numbers going to be. be very clear
about that. I have been surprised that
we haven't seen much outreach from the
likes of Kevin Hasset, the NEC director
this week who could have come out and
said, "Look, this is a different economy
to the economy in years gone by.
Immigration is a whole lot lower." And
then just describe the concepts. Explain
to people that you could see a run rate
of 100k in jobs growth, maybe even
lower, but you won't see unemployment go
up and it might not weigh on wages
either. And explain why. Walk people
through that dynamic. Otherwise, you're
chasing your tail. If we come out with a
number in 60 minutes time and it's 50k,
everyone would just say that's a really
really weak number. This economy is
doing absolutely awful. But I think
there's another argument to make there.
And a lot of economists on Wall Street
are already making that argument. But
it's nuanced. It's a difficult one to
message. If you say the reason why we're
not growing faster and seeing more job
creation is because of Fed Chair Jay
Powell, it's his fault. he needs to do
something is a much easier, simpler
message than it's actually a complicated
rearrangement of the immigration
backdrop as immigrants leave. You have
this number that actually is going down
and that leads to potentially a low
headline number, but it still means that
it's a solid labor market. Doesn't
really fly in headlines. I know it
doesn't work for truth social post, but
that is the job of the NEC director just
to communicate some of these issues.
Anyway, hopefully we can catch up with
Kevin Hassid sometime soon. Let's talk
about the UK. UK Prime Minister Karma
saying Chancellor Rachel Ree will stay
in her role for years to come, giving
her his full support hours after failing
to guarantee her position when asked in
Parliament just yesterday. The guilt
market all over the place in the last
day. Yeah, the fear that Rachel Reeves
was getting pushed out for having too
much fiscal discipline that she was
trying to foist on the UK market. Uh
Rachel Reeves currently speaking to
broadcasters in parliament. She said
that uh she's not going to comment on
the personal issue, but she said she's
just cracking on with the job and she
denied that the emotional display was
tied to the prime minister. I just
wonder whether the genie's out of the
bag. You have a prime minister that's
trying to cater to a labor department, a
labor uh a labor party that wants to see
ongoing welfare uh payments and a whole
host of people who would like to see the
same at the same time that you have a
deficit that is potentially uh
constrictive and growth cooling. It is a
very difficult toxic recipe for the
British government. It's hard not to
draw the conclusion that the prime
minister looks weak this morning. Given
the opportunity to back his chancellor
yesterday, didn't take it. Bond market
had its say. He backed away. So to say
this is not about the bond market. Come
on. It's all about the bond market in
the United Kingdom. We saw this in 2022
and we just retested that. It is notable
that even with the push back that we
have seen from Kier Starmer, you haven't
seen a full retracement in the bond
market, in the guilt market back to
levels before yesterday. Let's bring it
back to the states and turn to the labor
market. Microsoft cutting 9,000 jobs in
an effort to limit costs while ramping
up AI spending. It's the company's
second major wave of layoffs just this
year. Sarah Wolf of Morgan Stanley
weighing in ahead of the jobs report
later on this morning, writing this. We
think labor demand is slowing, but so
far the slowdown is modest. We forecast
headline payrolls adding 140,000. Sarah
joins us now for more. Sarah, good
morning. Good morning. So big question
and you've got a little bit of time. So
walk us through it. What on earth is
happening in this labor market? Well,
we're seeing that there's a mix of
indicators. The openings data from jolts
hiring layoffs that's more or less
stabilized and doesn't look that
concerning. But there's a broad base of
indicators that are showing a more
significant deterioration. And I think
that's why the Fed is so split on where
the economy is going. Are we headed
towards a gradual slowdown or should we
be more worried? So if we look at the
challenger data on layoffs, that's more
concerning than the jolts data. How
consumers feel about the labor market is
more concerning. Jobless claims data has
been rising. I think overall what we
could take from this is that the labor
market's cooling off. Part of it is the
immigration story that you were talking
about. Um but I don't think we're quite
at that point where we're going to see
an inflection higher in the unemployment
rate. What will drive that? And to the
point with the Microsoft layoffs, once
we start getting more of that economic
slowdown from tariffs hitting the labor
market, pushing companies to do layoffs,
we don't have enough hiring happening to
reabsorb those workers. And that's where
we're going to start to see the
inflection higher in the unemployment
rate. And we could see another 40 basis
points higher to 4.6 4.7 by the end of
the year pretty easily. Wait, hold on a
second. 4.6 64.7 that would trigger
potentially uh the som rule back to
where we were last year. Are you saying
that you kind of are sympathetic with
the idea that maybe the Fed is on the
back foot and might be too late? The
Fed's definitely on the back foot. It
makes every labor report more and more
important as we get into the end of the
year because they're going to have to be
patient. They're likely not going to cut
in July because this one print unless
we're somewhere between zero and
negative uh is not going to be enough
for the Fed to deliver cuts. But if we
get something in in August ahead of the
September meeting that shows a
consistent deterioration around the zero
range, the Fed's going to start cutting
and they might actually feel like they
need to come with bigger cuts than 25
basis points. One of the things Chair
Powell said is that we would have been
cutting if there if it wasn't for
tariffs, which basically means they're
ready to cut interest rates. Um, and so
if they're coming later, they might be
coming larger. How much of the story is
AI? We've been flirting with that for
quite a while. in the idea of Microsoft
continuing to do their layoffs. They had
an 18,000 uh person layoff now a 9/3,000
person layoff. We saw this with Meta,
the year of efficiency, which has led to
the year of big gains and $100 million
bonuses. But I'm just curious, is this
sort of the path forward? I think a lot
of actually what we're seeing broadly
for hiring right now is AI might
actually be supporting some of the
hiring because you need all these data
scientists and resources to build out
the AI infrastructure. Once we really
start to rebroad AI productivity gains,
that's where I think we're going to see
more of that ripple down effect into um
into layoffs or weaker hiring. So, we're
seeing it a bit in small pockets in the
tech sector, but I don't think AI is the
story right now. I think the fact is the
economy is growing in the first half of
the year by 1%. Immigration has slowed
down. So, break even payrolls have gone
from 200,000 last year to about a
100,000 now. And so, all of that, I
think, is what's going to be showing up
in the data right now. Have you seen any
differences between good sector hiring
and service sector hiring over the past
few months? Well, we're seeing the
services sector start to cool off. Most
of job gains were coming from education,
healthcare, government related jobs.
That was actually driving twothirds of
job growth over the last few years and
now that has started to deteriorate
which means we need other sectors to
step up if we don't want to get negative
prints. So we need the capex side of the
economy to start to accelerate. So
investment related jobs to pick up. We
need manufacturing and construction to
start to come back. We're seeing cracks
in the housing market that's weighing on
construction hiring. We're getting early
signs that onshoring is happening, but
it's not providing a meaningful boost to
manufacturing employment quite yet.
Nothing you've said in the last 5
minutes could be summarized as solid.
Why is the chairman calling this solid?
I think he's trying to keep optionality
and have a calm head, right? is trying
to guide the economy through very
turbulent volatile times when you have
um very different communication coming
out of the White House versus the
Federal Reserve. And then if you also
think about the views among the FOMC,
their views are so dispersed that the
best thing to be is calm and remain
optionality. If you look at rates
pricing right now, it's about 25% for
July, 90% for September, then you're
between 60 to 70% for October and
December. It's a good place for the Fed
to be. It allows them to cut at
basically any meeting through the end of
the year without disrupting markets. And
so his communication has clearly been
effective at setting them up that way.
So just to present a counterfactual and
just to let's go into the realm of
hypotheticals. If this Fed were to cut
by 100 basis points, hey, how about 300
basis points? What would happen to
inflation? Would that really cause
inflation expectations to me materially
rise given the backdrop that you just
portrayed? I think if you look at the
services side of the economy which is
actually offsetting which is pushing
down inflation right now will likely
offset some of the tariff effect that's
going to continue to moderate I think
even as the Fed is cutting interest
rates because if you look at all the
forward-looking indicators in particular
for the housing markets or shelters the
biggest chunk of chunk of services
inflation that's trending lower and
coming sustainably lower and I don't
think interest rate cuts are really
going to change that. Um, so I do think
that we're in a good place for the Fed
to cut in a couple of months from now
because as long as tariffs are
transitory, the underlying trend should
come down and growth is so weak that the
Fed needs to deliver a little bit of
stimulus. Sarah Wolf of Morgan Stanley.
Sarah, good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Looking ahead to payrolls,
not too far away, 8:30 Eastern time. The
estimate 106K in our survey with an
update on stories elsewhere with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross back over
to Danny Ber. Hey Danny. Hey John. We
are still monitoring the House of
Representatives, which is on track to
pass President Trump's one big beautiful
bill this morning. Voting is expected to
start after Minority Leader Hakeim Jeff,
who you can see there, speaking live on
the floor. We don't know when that will
happen as he is permitted to speak as
long as he wants and he's already been
going on for 2 and 1/2 hours. We'll
bring you any developments as they
happen throughout the morning.
Elsewhere, President Trump announced a
trade deal with Vietnam. It includes a
20% tariff on Vietnamese exports to the
US and a 40% levy on goods deemed to be
trans shipped through the comp country.
In return, Trump said Vietnam agreed to
drop all levies on US imports following
weeks of intense diplomacy.
And in sports, the second round of
Wimbledon is underway after an upset
filled first round. American Francis TFO
let lost to Cameron Nory while Taylor
Fritz won in a five set thriller.
Yannxer and Novak Djokovic both take the
center court later today. And in the
women's tournament, number one Arena
Sabalanka survived a close first set to
move on to the next round. And that's
your brief, John. Danny, thank you.
Appreciate it. More from Danny in about
30 minutes. Up next on the program, the
pressure building for a rate cut. The
consensus view among almost everybody
was that tariffs would start to impact
the data in March. It didn't happen in
March. It didn't happen in April. It
didn't happen in May. There's no
question the inflation news has been
much better than anybody thought. So the
income trends are great. The
unemployment rate is going to stay low.
We'll see about that at 8:30 Eastern
time. We'll get a view from Mike Collins
of Pym up next.
[Music]
equities a little bit firmer here by not
even a tenth of 1% on the S&P and the
NASDAQ 100. A similar move on Russell
doing better. Small caps up by 0.8%. In
the bond market, 10-year bond yields
grinding lower for a fourth consecutive
week. If we close out at that level, a
fourth consecutive week, the longest
such streak going back to February of
this year, we've had a real pullback at
the long end. The focus on the front end
at the moment, the 2-year 37621 yielded
down two basis points on the session.
And once again, the Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson making an argument I've
heard him make before, comparing that
2-year to where Fed funds is, Fed funds,
by the way, 425 to 450, and making the
argument that that 2-year is telling you
the overnight rate is too high. Yeah. by
something of the tune of 75 basis points
that the Fed could cut rates by three
times without necessarily causing a
disruption to markets. That's an
argument he's made before whether the
Jay Powell uh adheres to that. He has
not. He doesn't adhere to this at all.
And he says that the market is looking
at one thing and they're looking at
something else and that's the reason why
they are data dependent. Pretty it wow.
Really the 2-year is reflecting a Fed
dot which shows you rate cuts anyway
over the next 18 months. I mean this is
the really this is the big issue that I
have. Are we talking about the same
thing with different political
overtones? Are we talking about a Fed
that is poised to cut two times
regardless later this year and then uh
you know in this argument in both the e
economic sphere as well as the political
sphere you need to cut by two or three
times later this year which is
essentially exactly what they are
planning to do. We'll see if it starts
in September. Under Sylvanas this
morning pressure building for a rate
cap. The consensus view among almost
everybody was that tariffs would start
to impact the data in March. It didn't
happen in March. It didn't happen in
April. It didn't happen in May. There's
no question the inflation news has been
much better than anybody thought. And
tariffs are not inflationary. So, the
income trends are great. The
unemployment rate is going to stay low.
You're going to see the labor markets
tighten and growth accelerate in the
second half of the year. Here's the
latest this morning. President Donald
Trump amplifying his pressure campaign
against Fed chair J. Pal, writing on
truth social, too late should resign
immediately. Michael Collins, a page in
fixed income, writing, "The Fed's hands
are tied for now, but we still think a
Fed funds rate cut or two are likely by
year end." Michael joins us now for
more. Mike, welcome to the program, sir.
Let's talk about these rate cuts. Are
they cutting interest rates at the
Federal Reserve later this year in your
mind because inflation is coming down or
because this labor market is going to
start cracking?
Uh, both actually. You know, I mean,
we've been in the camp, Jonathan, as you
know, that uh the Fed is really stuck,
right? they're going to keep the rate
where it is until things change either
in terms of a labor market weakening or
or this tariff induced inflation not
being as bad uh as feared and maybe
being just a one-off and and seeing
inflation really stay kind of in the low
twos here. And I think in both cases uh
the data are moving in the right
direction, right? they're really
supporting uh the case for a rate cut or
two uh by the end of this this year
which as you've been talking about is is
fully priced in. Mike, do you care about
this report that we get in uh 40 minutes
time? You know, I I really think the
people were talking about what is the
run rate, what is the steadystate uh
level of job gains each month and you
know, maybe it was, you know, we were
running at 400, then 200, then 100. Uh
it feels like because of the just the
natural slowing in the job market
cyclally, but also the the the
immigration net immigration effect, it
feels like that natural steady state of
job growth, Lisa, is below 100 now. Who
knows? Maybe it's zero. Maybe it's
50,000. So I think you're naturally
going to see a lower prints on these
monthly job gains. Uh and uh I don't
know if it should spook the market. the
the lynch pin is that unemployment rate,
right? You could still have a fully
employed uh labor market uh with slowing
job gains. And I think that's really the
the conundrum the Fed is going to face.
They're going to see these slowing jobs
uh numbers and see the the labor market
still look fairly uh tight. Uh the big
number today we're looking at really is
the the wage gains and obviously the
wage gains have been slowing steadily uh
for a couple of years now and I think
we'll continue to see that as companies
you know they're not necessarily firing
people they're just pulling back on
hiring right now uh but wage gains are
definitely slowing if you don't see
inflation as being a persistent feature
of this US economy and if you do see
tariffs as not as inflationary as people
previously believed Why isn't the
30-year Why isn't the 10-year yield a
lot lower in the United States?
Yeah, I I think they're just pricing in,
you know, five rate cuts, right, for the
next year or year and a half is is
what's priced in. That seems very
reasonable to us, right? If that
happens, uh then you have a kind of a
normal upward sloping uh term structure,
right? So, that's that's what's fully
priced in and and that seems natural. Uh
what is not priced in Lisa is the is the
downside tail risk right? uh what is not
priced in in the credit markets, in the
equity markets, in the VA markets, and
arguably to your point in the in
long-term rates is is a nastier uh
downside surprise where you know Trump
does get his way and the funds rate
doesn't go down a 100 basis points, it
goes goes down two or 300, right? And
that is that is a very different world.
Uh that is not what we're expecting. Uh
but again the markets are are signing a
really low probability to that and and
probably too low. And Mike, just to pick
up on that, let's just focus on risk
assets. Let's talk about equities and
say high yield bonds. High yield credit
of course you're very familiar with. You
know well credit spreads right now 280
on high yield spreads and grinding even
tighter. And what's interesting about
that if you take the economic surprise
index something else you know well but
for our audience who might not be
familiar just where is the data coming
in relative to expectations that's been
rolling over since November. It's had a
smallest bounce, but ultimately the
trend over the last 6 months, not great.
So, the surprise index has been rolling
over. The equity market's been going
higher and credit spreads have been
grinding tighter. How do you explain
that? Either we're whistling past the
graveyard or the data is just becoming
less and less relevant. Which one is it?
Yeah, I I I think it's the whistling
past the graveyard for sure. I know
Lisa, it's good to see her fired up this
morning about this. And you know the
financial conditions is something that
you know not a lot of people are talking
about right? Yeah. Could the Fed cut 100
basis points now? Possibly. Maybe that's
the right level to to be at, frankly. Um
but you know what would happen to
financial conditions, right? Would the
stock market go up another 10 or 20%.
Would credit spreads continue to grind
in? Uh and that brings in a whole host
of other risks to the upside of the
economy and the upside of inflation.
Right. This economy has been driven by
the the upper end of the the wealth and
income spectrum which has been driven by
this paper wealth effect, right? And I
don't think you want to add fuel to that
fire. And I really believe that's one of
the reasons uh the Fed is really
hesitant uh to cut here because they
don't want to add uh add fuel to that
fire. If you think people are whistling
past the graveyard, Mike, what's your
highest conviction call right now?
the the conviction is that, you know,
growth is going to moderate a little bit
and and and recession risk really does
look low, right? I mean, the big theme
we've been focused on, Lisa, throughout
this whole cycle is, you know, where are
the tipping points in the private
sector? You know, yeah, the public
sector is a mess. The fiscal situation
globally uh is a mess. But you know
typically these recessions happen, these
downside risks happen when you have an
overlevered housing sector or financial
sector or corporate sector or consumer
sector or mortgage sector and and you
are not there this cycle. We have not
had a releveraging of the private
sector. Yeah, there are some pockets in
lower-end consumers where you're seeing
bigger increases in debt and leverage,
and you're seeing a lot a big increase
in personal bankruptcies and small
business uh bankruptcies, which is
certainly worrisome, but it's not
systemic enough to take the whole
economy down with it. Right? So, so we
have a pretty strong conviction that
that yeah, it's going to be a slowdown
in the economy, but this kind of
cataclysmic, you know, credit risk off,
you know, credit crisis is a really low
low probability. And that's frankly what
what the markets are are running with
and pricing in Mike Collins. Appreciate
your time, sir. Mike Collins there of
PGM fixed income. Just different ways to
think about this market at the moment.
Some people just think the data is
becoming less relevant for a bunch of
reasons, including the fact that we will
get clarity on some big policy issues
and maybe the data starts to improve as
the year goes on. Yeah. Well, how many
times can you get a head fake before you
start to feel like, well, what does
anything matter anymore? Go to the beach
apparently for the fifth time already
this morning. Not yet. Payrolls 34
minutes away. Nadia Levelvel of UPS,
Becky Frankowitz of Manpower Group, Jeff
Rosenberg of Black Rockck, Torson Slock
of Apollo, and a whole lot more still to
come.
Most likely we we see a slowdown in in
payroll growth over the next couple
months. We see this gradual slowdown.
The data is going to weaken. The growth
rate is going to fall. The unemployment
rate is going to rise. If you get a
two-tenth rise in the unemployment rate,
the market is going to respond quite
respond quite negatively to that. Labor
demand has cooled significantly, but
we're not seeing mass firing. If we see
a sub 100,000 job and certainly a
negative jobs number, that would start
to create the narrative of weak hard
data that would allow the Fed to cut
rates. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
Tracking live pictures down in the
nation's capital in Washington DC. The
House Minority Leader Hakee Jeff
speaking for three hours. 3 hours as the
House gets closer and closer towards a
final vote on the one big beautiful
bill. Once we've done that, we can move
on from taxes to trade. July 9th, the
next stop for this market. Before we get
there, it's about 29 minutes away. It's
payrolls Thursday and the estimate in
our survey 106K. The previous number
139. Your equity market this morning
positive by a tenth of 1%. Yeah. And not
to make this existential Thursday, but
the big question is what do these
numbers mean? And how bad could the
number be before it is bad? And how good
could the number be before it is good?
City Group's Andrew Hollen Horse just
put out a note and this to me is really
the ultimate question. How bad does the
number have to be or what does it look
like in order to get the Fed to put July
as a live meeting where potentially they
could cut rates? They said that what
that could do would be a 4.5%
unemployment or negative payrolls. That
could potentially push them to cut rates
as soon as July. A 4.4% incre uh uh
unemployment rate wouldn't quite be
enough, but would set up the rest of the
year. You're right to define what's bad,
and I'm totally with you. You can't just
do it with a headline number. If we get
say 80, might get 150. I don't know what
the number's going to be, but let's say
we get 80 at 8:30 Eastern time. There'll
be economists sitting around this table
saying 80 is not bad. Immigration's come
down. This is probably the run rate of
the labor market right now. Check
unemployment. You can't define this jobs
report this morning without checking
unemployment. If unemployment is going
up and jobs growth is slowing, the
pressure on this Fed to cut is going to
build big time. Yeah. If you start to
end up with both a low jobs number and a
sense that it's not just because the
labor supply is contracting to such a
degree that will present more of a
problem ultimately people are wondering
what do we do with these numbers that
are getting skewed by both secular and
cyclical trends and that is a very
difficult moment to really encapsulate
and that's the reason why we're talking
about AI we're talking about immigration
we're talking about a whole host of
other metrics in addition to how is the
economy doing the AI question I think is
still the most important question for a
lot of people are service sector
companies reluctant to make full-time
hires because they're investing a lot in
AI. Are we going to see much more of
that? And you've been on top of this
story now for weeks. If you're a
graduate coming into this economy, it's
getting harder and harder to get a job.
Why is it about the economy or is it
about AI? The spread between the
unemployment rate for recent college
graduates and the overall population is
about as wide as it's ever been. It's
almost a record differential. That is
how difficult it is for people to get
jobs. It raises a question is this AI or
is this because this is a stagnant labor
market that doesn't have the give the
forgiveness that allows people to move
on and have other options and that has
been the hallmark of American
capitalism. There are a lot of big
questions here which is the reason why
some people are checking out and some
people are checking in and say look at
the details and then you'll get maybe
some of the answers. The jobs report is
just around the corner 8:30 Eastern
time. Coming up this hour we'll catch up
with Nadia Levelville of UBS following
another record high for the S&P 500.
Becky Frankowitz of the Manpower Group
on the so-called rebalancing in the
labor market and tors lock of Apollo
reacting to this morning's payrolls
report. He's looking for higher
unemployment in the months to come. We
begin this hour with stock steady ahead
of jobs data out in just under 30
minutes time. Nadia Love of UBS writing,
"We believe the bull market remains
intact. We would use pullbacks as
opportunities to phase in to equities."
Nadia joins us now for more. Nadia, good
morning. Good morning. It's good to see
you. Last time we spoke you went neutral
equities. Is that still the position and
and why? That is still the position. I
mean when you look at where the market
is today and how much it has rallied
back it feels like a lot of optimism has
been priced in the market. Like of
course the economy has remained
resilient and some of that you can argue
maybe it's some front running ahead of
tariffs and but we do expect a soft
patch later this year and the market
will have to reconcile that. Now John
that does not to say that we think again
that the bull market is over. We think
that this market can continue to seize
some gains, modest gains from here. Um,
however, and and we think that there's
still some uncertainty around tariffs
that has to be reconciled. And so, we
are doing stuff. We're just doing things
from a relative um standpoint. We've
been advising our clients to stay fully
invested um in our mandate portfolios.
We're doing more relative value trades.
So, really, you know, preferring US and
EM over like a Europe. We often say you
can learn something from the data and
you can learn something from how the
market responds to the data. So
yesterday's data was a tariff on
Vietnam. It was 20%. This market
rallied. Nike and other stocks. Lisa and
I have been talking about it all
morning. We're up and to the right. 20%
not 46%. The bar seems to be really low
going into July 9th. Is that how you
look at things? I don't think that the
bar is that low going into July 9th. You
know, like is Vietnam a template? Right.
I think mo most of the market is sort of
pricing in. So uh tariffs to stay around
effective tariff rate to say around 15%.
And so if you start to see more of these
20% tariffs and still you have sectoral
tariffs to come that is going to
challenge that narrative right and we
ultimately we do think that by the end
of the year we're still in the same
place but in the short term we could see
some volatility. It isn't clear what we
should expect on July 9th. You know
we're hearing different things from the
administration. Besset is saying one
thing. L is saying president is saying a
whole other thing. So we do expect to
see some deals at least in principle and
then after that we do think that you
could see a bit of a re uh escalation
again in some of the trade tension
particularly with some of our largest
trade and partners. We still have EU to
go. How much is that offset by what's
getting done in in the House today? And
I'm not just talking about Hake Keem
Jeff who has been in a three-hour role
but just getting through a bill that is
front-loaded and is going to be
stimulative in particular to businesses.
Yeah. But I I think some of that is
already priced in um into the market. Um
yes, it will potentially be um
stimulusive early next year or even
towards the the end of the year. Um so
we do think that that some of that is
additive but again it's not going to
offset the full potential headwind and
so then you could get from you know um
tariffs reacelerate again. You know,
John was saying that you can learn
something from the data and you can
learn something from the market's
reaction to it. And you could see that
with respect to the tariffs, but you can
also see that with respect to payrolls.
And we've been trying to understand Mike
Collins talking about whistling past the
graveyard. Are people looking past
weakness to their peril? What kind of
number do you think the stock market
would wake up to and say, "Wait a
second. Maybe this isn't quite the uh
sort of benign backdrop that we've been
looking at." Lisa, I know you're going
to like this one. It's not just about
the headline. We also have to look at
the revisions, right? Because gosh,
haven't we seen a massive amount of
downward revisions? And so, while the
headline numbers can cause some
knee-jerk reaction, I think you have to
just peel back the onion. You know, uh
the peeling as quickly as we possibly
can carry on. Yeah. No, the the equity
market has weird reactions on um apparel
as we know. And that doesn't necessarily
transpire for the rest of the the
trading session into next week. And so I
think if you see something you know um
under uh well under 100k and you know
massive downward revisions from prior
months we've been running at four 40 to
50k downward revision. So is that 100k
really more 60k um and so I think that
that's going to give the market some
part. So if you see something like 80
that probably means that the labor
market is we weakening faster than than
people expected and that could
accelerate um cuts from the Fed. But
again um we'll see where it comes out.
already pricing in those cuts in the
bond market and I think increasingly
equity investors are as well. We've
heard from a range of guests in the past
week that they're willing to look
through weakness because ultimately it
will introduce rate cuts from the
Federal Reserve and I've heard less
thoughts on July 4th, July 9th taxes and
trade and more thoughts on 26. It just
feels like a lot of market participants
have moved beyond 25 and they're focused
on earnings growth next year and beyond.
Is it too early to do that?
um it is a little bit too early to fully
um look on 2026 because the the next six
months is going to matter as well and
how sort of things progress into 2026.
Reality is if we if we see an
acceleration in terms of unemployment
rate, if the Fed doesn't come to the
rescue fast enough, if tariffs
reacelerate, we could end up in not even
a soft patch or something even worse in
terms of a recession. And so eventually
you can get recovery in 2026, but the
path to that can be a much choppier path
than say sort of a a market that goes
straight up and to the right. I'll make
it really simple. At 8:30, is bad news
good news or just bad news?
I think again it always goes back on how
bad bad that news is, right? Yes, there
will be part parts of the market if you
see a weak pay wall numbers will get
excited that the Fed will be uh looking
to cut. But I think by the time you get
to next week, particularly when you
still have the uncertainty around
tariffs and those rates, you could see
the market start to take a breather
again. Nice try. That's all I can say.
It was an attempt. I know that was good.
But I I you know, this is the difficulty
you say. So is bad news good news is
good news bad news? And other than
Stuart Kaiser who looks at me with
disappointment, everyone else says,
"Let's get back to that onion and keep
peeling it back." The bias though, can't
you? The bias is sort of downside risk
into this payroll report. I think we do
have to sort of introduce another
question. What happens if it's good?
What happens if it's actually pretty
decent at 8:30? I know. I've actually
wondered this. Have we really accounted
for a potential upside surprise? And
then is that bad news for the Fed? I
guess the bigger question is how much
and at what point can Fed cuts offset
any potential weakening in the economy
for risk assets, right? Right. I mean,
essentially, if people are betting that
some Fed cuts, even with weakening, is a
good thing for risk assets, then can we
absorb bad news more easily than maybe
an overheating economy into potentially
tariff-driven inflation? Nadia, thanks
for indulging us or tolerating us. We
appreciate it. Nadia Love of UBS,
neutral on equities this morning. Equity
futures positive by about a tenth of 1%
on the S&P with the latest news
elsewhere. Some of our top stories in
our Bloomberg brief. Here's Danny Ber.
Hey, Danny. Hey, John. One of the top
stories continues to be President
Trump's one big beautiful bill. It is on
its way to the final vote in the House.
Republicans cleared a procedural hurdle
to advance the t tax and spending bill
early this morning. Debate is underway
as is the magic minute from
Representative Hakee Jeff, but that sets
up a vote for later this morning ahead
of Trump's self-imposed July 4th
deadline, and we'll bring you any of
those developments as they occur
throughout the morning. Elsewhere,
President Trump says Federal Reserve
Chair Jay Powell should resign
immediately. This after the head of the
Federal Housing Finance Agency called on
Congress to investigate Powell, alleging
his recent testimony to the Senate about
the central bank's plan renovations to
its headquarters was deceptive.
Elsewhere, Lululemon is suing Costco. It
accused the wholesale retailer of
copying its apparel designs. The
disputed products include hoodies,
jackets, and pants that allegedly
replicate Lululemon's designs and
trademark silhouettes. Costco has not
yet filed a response to the lawsuit. And
that's your brief, John. Danny, thank
you. Now we know. We know where to go.
Didn't know before. I mean, come on.
Unless people really care about the
little like hair. Uh, is that what that
is? Like a women's hair? I've got no
idea what that is. You know, the logo.
Is that what it's meant to be? I don't
know. Not sure, but I'm just trying to
imagine what that could possibly be. But
this is that's I'm like thinking how
much is that dance going? Yeah, right.
Like this is a great commercial for
Costco. Anyway, not sure that was the
intention. No, Danny, thank you. Up next
on the program, the morning calls plus
Becky Frankitz of the Manpower Group as
we count you down to the payrolls
report. That payrolls report about 18
minutes away.
[Music]
Vacation begins in 16 minutes time. 1
minute after we get a payroll report at
8:30 Eastern time. Equity futures into
it. Your scores look like this. Positive
a tenth of 1% on the S&P at all-time
highs coming into Thursday morning on
the Nasdaq 100. Up another 0.08%.
Let's get you some morning calls. First
up, NEM upgrading Meta to hold, seeing
upside to estimates and strong labor
productivity. That stock is up by 3/4 of
1%. Your second call from Goldman
raising its price target on Tesla to
315, pointing to better than feared Q2
vehicle deliveries. That stock is up by
4/10en of 1%. And finally, BMP Paraba
Xanic braiding FedEx to outperform,
saying the stock is arguably oversold.
The stock is up in a pre-market by 1.4%.
That's some of the calls this morning.
Let's turn back to the labor market.
Investors counting down to payrolls.
MPAG group president and chief strategy
officer Becky Franowitz and rebalancing
writing after several years where job
seekers held the upper hand, the balance
of power is starting to tilt back
towards employers. Becky joins us now
for more. Becky, welcome to the program.
Off the top, I just want to talk about
the service sector. I want to understand
your experience at the moment. Are you
seeing service sector providers
reluctant to make full-time hires and
moving towards temporary workers because
of what's happening with technological
developments? Yeah. So, I'd say two
things. Um, we're not seeing a lot of
movement anywhere. So, when you say are
we seeing big shifts, we're really not
seeing that. Um, we're starting to see
some impact from AI that is happening.
Um we're seeing increase in hiring
around statistitians um people who can
model data uh and the big hirers in that
space are the accenturers of the world
Microsoft etc. um we are also seeing on
the other end of the spectrum of the
labor market summer hiring start to pick
up really from um frontline supervisors
in food service preparation and a big
surge in our retail workers both online
and offline as consumers shop in both
forms. So the the labor market is
slowing. That power pendulum is shifting
towards employers, but there are a
couple of bright spots, but make no
mistake, it is a slowing, very strained
labor market in the United States.
Becky, you touched on another theme and
why it's so difficult to read right now.
It's not just technology or the broader
economy, it's also immigration. Becky,
are you seeing certain sectors that
would typically depend on immigration
looking to hire more aggressively
elsewhere domestically here in the
United States of America and finding it
difficult to get the talent? Yeah. So,
we are definitely in a talent shortage.
There's no question around that. Both in
talent supply and also skilled talent
that is happening. Um, it's ironic
though, John, as you would think we'd
see a big surge in our new graduate
hires, but it is a tough time to be a
new college graduate in the US where
unemployment among newly new graduates
is 6% juxtaposed to 4% for the broader
economy. So, you would think if we were
looking for new to world workers, um,
we'd have lower unemployment among that
group and we're actually not. And so, my
hypothesis is we're employers just
aren't hiring. They're not hiring entry
level anticipating AI to take some of
those roles. They're looking for more
expens experienced hires when they're
hiring. And for those summer jobs, those
transition jobs, they're going to those
high school students for summer
employment. So Becky, can we build on
this because this is something that
we've been discussing for a long time.
Is this the new normal where it will be
a lot harder to break into the workforce
particularly for white collar jobs in
the technology in the banking sphere
because of AI taking on a lot of the
roles that entry levelvel workers
typically did. Yeah. Lisa, what is entry
level? You know, in the future, what is
entry level? I mean, I personally
learned how to work by calling on retail
stores. the job that I started and
learned how to inter you know
communicate with others um sell that job
won't be here in three years and so it
is still here today though AI is
starting to impact but it's impacting in
the data structures versus in actually
taking those frontline jobs however we
can't anticipate that's going to happen
so this idea of how do you get work
ready it is going to change you won't
come in and do the tasks the repetitive
tasks you'll have to come in and be
ready to contribute at a different level
and that is why I believe that we're
seeing this higher unemployment among
these new college graduates. So, and we
could talk about AI and the way it's
going to transform the market. Uh, and
I'd love to do that at another time. If
you put this through to job creation,
does that mean that we are headed toward
a lower job creation environment for a
long period of time that we're moving
more to a more European model in a way
where there's lower firing and lower
hiring and that's just the way it is?
Yeah. I don't know if we're moving to a
more European model structurally, but I
think what we are seeing, and it may
surprise you, that jobs that are
resilient or durable are manufacturing
jobs, production operators, supervisors.
Again, even right now where we're seeing
decreased in demand, where is the the
hiring happening? It's hiring. It's
happening in medical and health,
registered nurses, retail supervisors.
So, there are still durable jobs out
there um in our current economy. in
terms of the future and what that looks
like. You know, the belief continues to
be that there'll be new jobs created. Um
software developers, which we've seen be
impacted, that job's being reshaped.
Now, um there's new titles, AI ethicist,
two words I would have never put
together. Um so, there are being new
jobs created, but we're in a bit of a
holding pattern as people wait for the
new normal to set in. Um they're
holding. That speaks to the low churn of
the moment. Becky, appreciate your time
as always. Becky Frankitz there of the
Manpower Group. Becky's great at
breaking this down. just really making
us understand, helping us understand how
complex this labor market is right now.
There are shortages in some places,
demand issues in others, and within the
demand issues, there's a whole bunch of
reasons for it. Not just the broader
economy, trade, tariffs, whatever,
policy, volatility, uncertainty, all of
that, but also technology. We keep going
back to to AI and it goes to something
you've talked about, which is where will
the jobs recession be? It will be the
white collar jobs recession. You're
talking about technology and the
financial sector and that's where the
unemployment rate particularly for new
hire new graduates has gone up
dramatically. Where are the jobs?
Manufacturing. It's in the services
sector. It's in the health care. It's in
some of these other areas that are
harder to really replace with uh
quantitative computing in the same kind
of way. What's it going to do? Replace
us or enhance the jobs we already have?
First of all, it's going to slow down
hiring, at least in certain places,
until we have a full understanding of
what this actually means. Does that
speak to the difficulty the graduates
are having right now? Because that's a
major problem both for the economy and
politically. If you don't like what
you're seeing politically in certain
cities, if you don't like that, they're
going to vote a certain way. Well, yeah.
If you've got an entire group of people
who are being locked out of a labor
market, they might be more inclined for
a different type of economic structure
for say a municipality and which could
play into it. I mean, I don't want to
get into this kind of political
argument. There is though this
complication of how you understand this
evolution and if you either have to be
incredibly highly skilled and incredibly
uh good at critical thinking on one side
to be very wealthy or you're
manufacturing and and working as a
nurse. I mean, these are the these are
the bifurcations right now uh that
people are trying to extrapolate out.
We've got the rest of this year to talk
about politics in New York City, haven't
we? Yay. So, let's move on. The jobs
reports 8 minutes away. Mike McKe's
dropping by to help us understand what
to look for. Mike, it's a different jobs
report. There's a different feel to
things going into this. What are you
looking for? Well, everybody's looking
for a slowdown in job creation, and I'll
certainly have to check the TV anchor
hiring uh to see if if you guys have a
future. Uh but we're looking for only
106,000
uh jobs created during the month of
June. The whisper number 95 96. So
basically, uh Wall Street leaning to the
idea that we're going to get a
disappointing report. Now, what is
disappointing to the Fed? They're going
to be looking at the unemployment rate
because that's their signal for whether
the economy is slowing. And we're going
to have to go out to three digits
because it barely cracked 4.2 last time,
rounded down. It could easily round up
this time to perhaps 4.4 depending on
where we come in. We also have a lot of
other numbers today. Jobless claims 241
leaves us in the same range that we have
been in. Continuing claims still kind of
the same range but expected to go
higher. So, we'll see what that works
out to be. And then we've got 10:00
numbers too. Uh trade balance out at
8:30 expected to be bigger perhaps than
what uh we saw last month. ISM services
maybe a slight rise but it's prices paid
that'll matter matter there because the
jobs part of ISM services will be
already behind us and capital goods
orders not expected to change at all.
But a lot of data for people to uh trade
on today. And so um we're going to be
watching to see if it gives us any
signal for how fast the Fed is going to
have to move. Not whether they will
move, but how fast. Yeah. Mike, just on
that on the Federal Reserve, how bad
would this number need to be just to
make that July meeting a little bit more
of a live meeting? Well, I think if you
got close to four, five on unemployment,
then the it would put it on Wall
Street's agenda, might put it on the
Fed's agenda, but I think the Fed is
going to try to avoid July at all costs
because it even if we get a tariff
impact in June, it's just the first
month of that that we would be seeing
and they'd like to have two three months
before uh they actually know that a
trend is in place. Michael McKe, I'm
taking you down with me. Appreciate your
time. Mike's going to be back with us in
about six minutes time to break down the
jobs report. Not just tracking that, the
labor market report is of course just
around the corner. Also tracking events
down in Washington DC. We're told
getting closer and closer to a final
vote on the one big beautiful bill.
Hakee Jeff, the House Minority Leader is
slowing things down a bit. And Lisa,
this just in some breaking news. Jeff,
according to reports that I'm seeing, is
now reading from a fresh binder. Okay.
So, you've been tracking the binder and
how things are progressing. Apparently,
it's a fresh binder now. Oh, this is a
new paradigm. I need to refresh my my
ideas. What is he reading? Shakespeare.
I mean, seriously, what? Isn't it
stories of Medicare? Isn't it something
like that? Isn't that what he's been
doing for the previous three hours?
Stories of Medicaid. Yeah. I mean, what
kinds of stories? Once upon a time. I've
got no idea. Yeah, they they needed
evidently you need to you need to pay
attention. Uh we will watch that or we
will not be watching that, but we'll be
watching the binders and how many there
might be. We'll have someone else to
track that. Okay. Thank you. I think
that that's good. One thing that I am
watching is uh the market expectation
for Fed cuts. Right now, we've got a 23%
chance of a July rate cut, which is
actually pretty significant. You've got
a 96% chance baked into markets right
now of a September rate cut as people
really look to this Fed potentially
moving. You asked the right question.
How high is the bar for the Fed to move
in July? That's been a moving target.
The jobs report is 5 minutes away. The
estimate in our survey 106K, the
previous number, 139. A lot of focus on
the unemployment rate. We'll get the
numbers in just a moment. The payrolls
report is just around the corner.
Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research joins us
in a moment alongside Jeff Rosenberg of
Black Rockck, Torston Slo of Apollo.
Your labor market data up next.
[Music]
The jobs number just seconds away. The
payrolls report about 20 seconds out.
Going into it, your scores look like
this. Equity futures on the S&P positive
by a tenth of 1% as we come into
Thursday at all-time highs. On the
NASDAQ 100 up by 0.1 on the Russell the
small caps up by 8/10 of 1% in the bond
market 2-year 10year 30-year yields down
into the print we're down by two basis
points. The 10-year 42573
with your jobs number this morning is
Mike McKe. Good morning Mike. Good
morning John. A lot of numbers to go
through here. 147,000 jobs created
according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, which is above the 106
estimate that we got from Bloomberg
Economics uh and the economist we
survey. Private payroll is up 74,000. Uh
let's take a look here at the
unemployment rate. It falls to 4.1%.
There was some thought it was going to
go maybe as high as 44. The forecast was
for 43. So, uh much better number than
anticipated. We also see, and I'm going
to jump here to jobless claims, a big
drop in jobless claims to 233 from uh
previously reported 237. So jobless
claims and unemployment go down and it
looks at this point like it's status quo
in the labor market. Labor force
participation 62.3%.
Uh average hourly earnings, they're
coming low, up 2/10en of 8% pushes the
average uh for the year down to 3.7%
from 3.9. Weekly hours 34.2.
The revisions to payrolls payrolls 147.
Uh the revision is a net of 16,000
additional jobs. So not much change
there. Trade balance comes in at 71.5
billion. The forecast was for 71. So
that is actually pretty close to right
on. Won't make much difference in
people's second quarter GDP guesses at
this point. And then uh back to claims
233 and the uh continuing claims number
comes in at 1,964,000.
Uh that is the same as the revised
number for the prior week. So at this
point, this looks like a very status quo
labor report. We got to look under the
hood to see what categories moved. And
uh I'll do that while you guys are
checking out the market reaction. Mike
McKe, thank you. You can take a guess.
The sound in the last couple of minutes,
the door slamming shut on a July rate
cut. Look at this move at the front end
of the curve. Up 12 basis points on a
two-year yield. 38986
in the FX market. What happens when you
start to see yields go up like that?
Dollar stronger. Euro dollar rolling
over. So, some dollar strength, some
higher bond yields. The equity market,
I'm not sure, doesn't know what to do
with this right now. Equity futures
positive by about a third of 1%. But
good news is good news. And this is good
news. Much better than expected. an
upside surprise on headline payrolls 147
the estimate 106 the unemployment rate
was at 4.2 2. In our survey, economists
were looking for that to climb up to
4.3. It comes in at 4.1. And if you want
some high frequency data, or at least
some higher frequency data, jobless
claims much lower than expected across
the board here in the labor market. This
is a pretty solid read. You really can't
find many cracks here. Even the
revisions, I mean, we were talking to
Nadia Levelvel earlier about the
potential for downsides revisions. They
were revised up from 135,000 to 141,000.
when you look at okay does this mean
that it's inflationary no it does an
hourly rate uh for earnings actually
went lower came in lower than people
expected so what does this mean for the
Fed what does this mean for exactly what
this labor picture is doing right now it
seems like good news is good news and
the bond market is trying to reassess
shout out to Mike Apen over at Morgan
Stanley had an estimate of 140 going
into this particular print so not bad e
not I would say that you nailed it and
right now you went against the grain
Congratulations. Well, they might
acknowledge it's sort of like blindfold
and dart boards and all that stuff every
single month. But let's be pretty clear
about this. Coming into this print, a
lot of people thought there was some
real downside risk going into this jobs
report and we might get a much lower
number particularly after what we saw in
ADP and there's no sign of that in NFP
whatsoever. I think that your conclusion
is the absolute correct one. This
absolutely slams the door shut on any
kind of July rate cut and you are
certainly seeing that getting priced
into the market. What this means beyond
that remains to be seen. Whether this
can actually be something we can draw a
conclusion from or whether this is going
to be a confusing jumble of numbers that
Mike can try to extrapolate apart. And
I'm very curious about those TV news
anchors that you were talking about.
Mike, still got a job. Mike, I hope
looks like hiring. We'll head back to
Mike in just a moment. With us around a
table, Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research.
Stephanie, good morning. Good morning.
Your first take on this one. Yeah, I
mean I this is something that we were
kind of warning people about an
environment where the steadystate pace
of hiring comes down pretty
substantially and the unemployment rate
starts to fall because we're in an
environment where there's a significant
detraction from a foreignb born
population and that puts downward
pressure on the unemployment rate. It
reduces the unemployed people and at the
same time it lowers a steady state pace
of hiring. So 150 around 150 now is what
two years ago 250 225
granted like a lot of the a lot of the
the the job gains was driven by
government. So I think we have to take
that with a grain of salt. If you look
at private payrolls that was fairly
sluggish and by category it was you know
kind of kind of slow as well. So the the
steady state pace of growth has come
down. I would look at it uh from a
private perspective in particular first.
And then we're in an environment where
you're seeing a tightening in parts of
the the labor market, which is what the
the signal from the unemployment rate.
What do you make of the fact that we
didn't see hourly earnings significantly
rise or rise even as much as people
previously expected? It kind of goes to
this idea, can we get a decent uh jobs
number without really any kind of
inflationary impulse? I think it was the
timing of the survey week. So, this is
something that gets that's somewhat
underappreciated when you're when you're
forecasting the the job the the payroll
gains. Uh, it tends to be very sensitive
to the timing of the survey week and
this time it was earlier in the month
which doesn't capture the 15th which
then tends 15th tends to be the time
where you get pay raises and and that
type of thing. So, that tends to uh put
downward pressure on the average hourly
earnings number. So, we were looking for
02 for particularly this reason. Do you
think that this calls into the question
the need for the Fed to cut in
September?
Yeah, in our base case, we have them not
cutting. Although it's it's it's it's a
close call. It certainly reduces the
odds. Uh certainly July is off the
table. And now the question is, you
know, can they still cut in September?
Base cases, they probably don't, but
there's a lot more data and this this is
just one print among many that we're
going to be getting by the time we get
to September. Stephanie Roth is going to
stick with us around the table. The jobs
number just moments ago, 147,000, higher
than expected. The estimate in our
survey was 106. The unemployment rate
expected to climb to 4.3% actually
dropped to 4.1% from 4.2. Got a bunch of
other data as well because it is
Thursday and it is payrolls Thursday
this time around because of the long
weekend. So we got jobless claims as
well and claims came in much lower than
expected. 233 the estimate was 241.
We've got Tson Slo with us around the
table from Apollo to I want to come to
you a bit earlier than expected because
I want your view on this. You were
expecting unemployment to start
climbing. Unemployment's falling back.
What explains that? I think the key
issue here is the immigration factor as
Stephanie is mentioning that it is very
very important. So Terara Watson and
Wendy Edelberg estimates now that we
have seen significant decline in the
long run payroll growth of closer to
around 50,000. And the fact that the
unemployment rate is going down is
something that of course is quite
surprising. And the fact that we now
have so strong payroll growth even with
a decline in the long run steady state
for non-farm payrolls tells you that
this was a fairly strong report and this
is a very strong economy which argues to
your point which is our view that the
Fed will only cut once this year simply
because rates will stay higher for
longer. there is no need, especially not
with Powell at the same time saying that
he expects a meaningful rise in
inflation over the coming months. Is it
fair to say that this was the goal of
the Trump administration that they
wanted to get immigration down so that
even if you have payroll growth of 100
to 150k could actually see the
unemployment rate start to fall?
Exactly. Because both labor supply is
declining when you deport roughly around
a million people at an annual rate and
at the same time labor demand may also
eventually slow down. But if it doesn't
slow down then the decline in labor
supply on its own will exactly create a
report like this one namely where you
have a declining unemployment rate. So
it is obviously better than the
consensus expected also better than what
we had expected. But it tells you very
clearly that the labor supply story is
playing a very important role here. At
the same time it also suggests that the
economy or the uh the business
environment is much more solid than many
people expected as well in terms of
hiring in terms of looking for that and
it's coming without the inflationary
impulse that some people were worried
about. Do you think that that's durable?
Well, and that brings us back to the
discussion around what is the effect of
the trade war. Are tariffs not going to
have an impact? So far, it's remarkable
where you have inflation basically still
steady and now job growth still
relatively strong. So, in that sense,
there literally is very little sign of
the trade war having a macroeconomic
impact. At this point, there are going
to be people who look at this and say,
"This might be the last gas before real
material weakening. We can't trust these
numbers. Max Kentner is already gone."
What do you say to that? Well, that's
why the next few weeks with the earning
season will become very very important
because that's when we'll figure out is
the pick coming through the python in
terms of the tariffs heading eventually
earnings because at the end of the day
we are raising about $400 billion in tax
revenue at an annual rate at the moment.
Total earnings for the S&P is about $2
trillion. So that means that someone
needs to pay $400 billion if tax revenue
is going up $400 billion. Is it
consumers through higher inflation or is
it companies through lower earnings? And
we still with this report of course have
just not seen that yet. So exactly to
your point Lisa over the next several
weeks. We'll find out in Q2. How did
companies actually respond to higher
tariffs? Did they respond by passing
prices through in the form of higher
inflation? We'll find that out also very
soon. Or did they also in this case turn
out to actually lower their earnings and
say we're going to eat some of the
tariffs? And that becomes the main
question for markets now. Namely, what
was actually the response to tariffs in
the second quarter? Mike McKe is back
with us for a little bit more. Mike,
you've taken a second look at the
numbers. What explains the upside
surprise? Uh, there's just some hiring
in a lot of different categories. The
big, you're going to laugh at this. The
biggest category for hiring was
government. 73,000 additional jobs, but
that is almost all in state and local
government. A lot of it in state and
local education. 7,000 jobs lost in the
federal government. Now, maybe we get a
lot more once we get to the fall. and
some of those people who are getting
severance uh finally leave the labor
force to what you guys have been talking
about. The interesting thing here is
that uh the number of people who are in
the labor force foreignb born went up
this month. Same is true of the people
who are in the labor force who are uh
native born although the overall level
of the labor force falls uh by 120,000
pe 130,000 people. So, uh, you can see
why the unemployment rate went down.
93,000 people, uh, went or got employed
according to the household survey and
222,000 lost jobs. Uh, but the because
of the drop in the labor force there,
you're seeing a lower unemployment rate,
but uh the uh the labor force doesn't
seem to be uh having been affected by
the overall uh numbers of people who are
being deported. Manufacturing lost 7,000
jobs uh during the month. Construction
gained 15,000 more than anticipated.
Retail trade only 2,000. Now if we are
seeing a slowing in spending that might
be showing up there that might be one of
the first ones uh that we see that is a
problem. And Lisa I checked on you and
arts and uh uh entertainment hiring was
up by 20,000. I don't know whether you
are arts or entertainment but uh you
would follow that. Both Mike both. Yeah.
Arts and entertainment. Dear, so for
right now, you're okay. All right.
Thanks. I'm so glad that was the news
you need to know. Mike McKe, thank you,
sir. Looking at bonds this morning.
Bondo tied by eight or nine basis points
at the front end of the curve off the
back of this upside. Surprise. Once you
push that through foreign exchange, you
get a stronger dollar. Euro dollar right
now negative by about a half of 1%
11742. Talked about the equity response
to that. Not convincing. Still positive
though by about 210 of 1%. To talk about
the market, Jeff Rosenberg of BlackRock
jumps on to talk to us. Jeff, welcome to
the program. And what on earth did you
do with this one this morning? You know,
Jonathan, I haven't heard you say it
yet, but you know, this is uh a great
example of where the first reaction is
not necessarily the last reaction. I I
think we got to rewrite these headlines,
everybody. Uh this is about the private
payrolls and private payrolls
disappointed to the downside. Uh Mike
McKe just talked about it. The upside
surprise, it's government and that may
be surprising. Federal government was
down. That's not surprising. That's Doge
and the cuts. It's state and local
that's very high. If it's education, to
me, that sort of sounds like uh there's
a lot of education workers coming back
into the job market in June. No, that's
a seasonal adjustment effect. So, the
story here is not the headline. The
market is reacting to that. Maybe it's
the algos. Let's get the humans back in
the room uh back into the trading and
and and look through this report. This
is a slowdown and a little bit
disappointment on the private payroll
side. You know, you look at private
services, it's well below 68,000. It's
well below the six-month average and not
not like earthshattering here, but this
is the slowing in the job market that we
are expecting. The market reaction is
trading off of the headline, but I think
the story here is much more about
private payrolls and that is actually a
very different headline. Now, we'll see
if the market eventually picks up on
that as the as the as the end of the
day. Jeeoff, you're right. I always say
it. So, let's rewind 15 minutes. The
first move is not always the right move.
So, let's wait and see what happens
later in the day. There you go, Jeeoff.
I got it out. Jeeoff, let's talk about
what we're seeing in private payrolls
then. And talk about this move in the
market. Would you fade what we're
seeing? High yields at the front end.
Would you fade what we're seeing in the
FX market? A stronger dollar. Yeah. I
mean, that's basically my point is that
the initial reaction here may be a bit
overstated with regards to repricing.
Now, I agree with you. I didn't I think
July may have been uh you know
overstated to begin with, but I think
the broader story here is the slowing in
the in the payrolls that we've seen for
some time. I think it's actually
confirmed by this report. And then I
want to re-emphasize what Torstston just
said because I couldn't agree more that
it's really going to be about uh profit
margins and what we learn from
corporations. Uh I think you use
Torston, the pig and the python. That's
exactly it. I mean, we're still waiting
for the impact to show up. it's been
showing up and and you know the other
story around around payrolls is is
they've been overstated and and and so
the big question is is there a
underlying weakening here that is a
little bit greater than what is
anticipated. I think the story here
today of headline versus privates is
kind of throwing more confusion in
there. The revisions were a surprise to
the upside people looking for you know
the revision story to show up. So that
was a little bit stronger than expected.
Uh but I think it's really going to be
about the corporate reaction here and
it's been as we saw in the jolts data
you know it's been a pretty stagnant
very you know benign kind of layoff
environment. We have to see whether or
not that is maintained. But Jeeoff isn't
this kind of conducive to risk assets
and and I say this at a time when you
have a potentially stimulative bill
coming out of Washington DC by albeit
increasing the deficit. But you have
sort of steady, if slowing growth at the
same time that you have a Fed that is
poised to cut rates in September and
potentially again later this year. Isn't
that potentially still okay for
everything to continue on the status
quo?
Well, yes. Um, in some sense that's the
case, but it's already well into the
price. Uh so you look at like the
performance of cyclicals versus
defensives for example. Uh you know
you're you're seeing you know
expansionary type moves in the face of
that you know you said slowing but
steady. I I'd emphasize more the slowing
you know most of the economic data uh is
slowing and that's what the payroll data
here is is validating. Now it's not the
end of the world and it's not saying the
sky is falling or there's recession but
this is consistent with a midcycle
slowdown. So there's a little bit of a
disconnect between kind of what we're
seeing in valuations and what we're
seeing in terms of the slowdown. And
that doesn't necessarily, you know, mean
you jump in with with both feet and and
everything's sky is clear. You got to
take a little bit of caution with
respect to what's in the price versus
what we're seeing in terms of the macro
backdrop. Hey Jeff, appreciate it. Jeff
Rosenberg there of Black Rockck. The
message you sent earlier on about two
hours ago. Which one? The which is
basically the data and the market are on
two different pages. Exactly. And this
is partly because the uh the market
right now is looking to AI, is looking
to different advancements, is looking to
good enough and the economy is looking
at a very different backdrop where you
have very low hiring and very low firing
and that at some point you have to have
a meeting of the two. Stephanie, you
heard Jeff there the distinction
headline payrolls versus private
payrolls. You talked about it briefly as
well. Two different stories kind of to
some extent. The the the government the
strength in government specifically tied
to education was probably a seasonal
quirk. totally agree with that. The the
fact that private payrolls are in the
70s shouldn't be that alarming though
because we know that the steadyst state
pace of payrolls growth has come down.
We should be concerned if it was
stronger than that because we don't have
the labor force to support it. That if
if it was not running notably above
100,000, you're going to start running
into problems with inflationary
pressures picking up. To you, you've
been making the argument that
unemployment will climb. You're
expecting it to rise in the months to
come. What convinces you of that at the
moment? Well, the problem also with this
story with the data today is that the AI
story is just not playing out. So that
means that we're not seeing people
losing their jobs and the unemployment
rate going up because of that factor.
The expectation from our side was that
there was a slowdown in demand that
pushes the unemployment rate higher. But
the fact that not even the AI story is
showing up here and it really is mainly
a story of just a simple decline in
labor force participation because we
simply have a smaller labor force. And
also the added issue here, government
employment going forward. If we're now
also going to hire more workers for ICE,
if we're going to hire, generally
speaking, at a number of different
fronts with a huge budget increase, we
could also now begin to spend much more
time over the coming months on thinking
about what's going on in the private
sector employment numbers relative to
the government sector. You changing your
mind then because you've been talking
about stagflation for a while later this
year. Challenge to that right now. So on
the inflation side, I mean Jay Palin CRA
just a few days ago said again that he
expects a meaningful increase in
inflation. He said that at the
congressional hearings. He said that
also at the press conference. So we
still have if the Fed chair says I
expect a meaningful increase in
inflation that's something we should
take very seriously. So to what Jeff's
point was exactly that I still think
that we're waiting to see what was the
corporate response in the second quarter
to tariffs and tariffs. Yes, it may seem
like it's behind us. Uncertainty
certainly looks better. We can begin to
talk about now with this report what
that means for July the 9th and the
deadline next week. But the conclusion
is if we at least at the moment still
have a question mark around how did
companies active respond to tariffs. I
think it's too early to take the
champagne bottle out here and say this
is all I want. Toss and slot. Stephanie
Roth to the two of you. Thank you. Don't
pop the champagne just yet. When are we?
I think we're about 12 days away from
numbers from JP Morgan when we start to
hear from corporate America about what
the plans are for the next several
quarters and beyond. Yeah, July 15th,
you start to kick off those bank
earnings and then you see whether it's
profit margins or whether uh they're
going to uh just pass it along to
consumers less in the banking sector and
more in others. I'm sitting here
thinking, how do you price in or how do
you factor in slowm moving changes that
are seismic in monthly data? And I think
this is the reason why everyone's heads
just kind of spinning because you have
all these stories that make perfect
sense and these theories, but the
numbers aren't really catching up. So,
what do you do? You get to the beach if
you're not already left. All right. I
think a lot of people have already left,
haven't they? If you're still with us,
thank you. Take us into the car with
you. Nice journey with Bloomberg TV in
the background. Let's give an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg briefest Danny Burger. Hey
Danny. Hey John. Just a quick recap of
that data. The US added 147,000 jobs in
June. That was higher than expected. May
payrolls were also revised higher. The
unemployment rate that came in lower
than expected, but labor force
participation is down and average hourly
earnings fell just slightly. The report
prompted traders to scrap wagers on a
Fed rate cut later this month.
Elsewhere, President Donald Trump and
Ukraine's Vladimir Zalinski are expected
to hold a phone call on Friday. The FT
reporting that the world leaders will
discuss the US's decision to pause some
key weapons deliveries to Kev. The
Ukrainian president will reportedly
raise the idea of a potential future arm
sale. Deepseek is ramping up hiring. The
Chinese AI startup posted 10 positions
on LinkedIn, signaling that it's looking
for talent outside of its home market.
Similar jobs were posted earlier this
year on Chinese recruitment sites. The
positions are based in Beijing and
Hengha. And that's your brief, John.
Danny, thank you. Appreciate it. Have a
nice long weekend. Up next on the
program, setting you up for the day
ahead. Plus, Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
tracking the latest in the House. House
Minority Speaker Hakee Jeff is still
speaking as we wait for that final vote
on the one big beautiful bill.
[Music]
just about holding on to gains here in
the equity market following that decent
solid upside surprise on the headline
number at least in a payroll report and
on unemployment the right kind of
downside surprise equities positive by
210 of 1% your trading diary for the
next 24 hours a sneak peek of next week
the house expected on the president's
tax bill any moment now. Sprinkler data
at 10:00 a.m. Friday, of course, markets
close. Looking ahead to next week, the
president's tariff deadline. Tracking
everything down in Washington.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Hey, Tyler.
Yeah. Hey, John. Well, we're still
waiting for Hawking Jeff to finish
speaking. His magic minute is now
verging on to four hours. I'll also
point out we're just minutes away from
the House being fully in session for 24
hours. And what he's doing right now is
he's previewing Democrats argument
against the one big beautiful bill. does
it does appear poised to pass. We do
have some new reporting for you. Steve
Scaliz telling Bloomberg News on the
Hill just minutes ago that ultimately
what helped to get the log jam uh clear,
get these hold out Republicans on board
as we expect them to be was President
Trump telling them that he's done
negotiating and that they have to get on
board to pass his agenda. Tyler, we'll
be tracking this for you throughout
today, hopefully for not much longer.
Tyler Kendall there of Bloomberg. Thank
you. We were talking about it briefly.
The president emboldened. This is about
to pass. We assume decent jobs numbers
this morning onto next week. It's going
to push a little bit harder on tariffs.
At a certain point, we're not seeing the
effect of tariffs come in in
unemployment or in inflation. You have
to wonder what that does to his agenda.
Ready for the long weekend. I think
we're all ready for the long weekend.
You don't even have to ask. Come on.
From New York City, thank you for
choosing Bloomberg TV. Have a wonderful
long weekend. Enjoy the July 4th
holiday. We'll see you next Monday. From
New York, this was Bloomberg
Surveillance.